whose gut is irritated, sees his reflection. his hair has become thin, he looks doe-ish. Beyond his reflection he considers the air and the sky. There is no seagull above him. he pays no attention to the building he enters slumped in a chair, his knees overlapping, across from his mother. she is perturbed and critical of the bowl of fruit 
between them.

It was true, he believed, that his failure would one day lead to success, a great success. But upon seeing the fruit in the bowl, he realized the possibility that his thoughts may have led him astray and perhaps it was true that failure would simply lead to more failure.

There was silence and there grass on the television and a white
blur. It is not a seagull, it is continues onwards throughout the air and the sky. And on the television there are many people standing on the grass who are also watching the smear. He takes a banana from the fruit bowl and does not eat it. His mother glares at him. He feels a prickling hatred towards the juice machine as it endlessly fountains into itself. And the plastic is perpetually discoloured along with the vacuum cleaner which is attached to an extension cord that leads towards an outlet in the hallway. The air he looks at the wind on the television where the white smear moves through the air and the sky.

There are plastic coolers stacked along the wall, the ice has thawed and puddled in the drain. a crate on the loading dock and fish and minnows swim around a pickle jar of river water. he was merely old enough to stand, with his father. they sit near the harbour and eat fish from a basket. he uses his cell phone and a message about the boat that once belonged to his father. and there is a barrel of ice that is thrown towards the overflowing drain and he watches out the window, where there are trees along the road and his thoughts become fixated on counting the trees. a message arrives back and there is a
thing he can attend if he would like to talk about the boat.
The trees become less sparse and he looks at the news on his cell
phone, perhaps for some death or idiocy to mitigate his own. and he arrives holds the door for his friend, whose stomach as a pufferfish expands into his intestine and the pufferfish deflates and lowers, nesting into his intestine. he offers him a bottle of water and he takes it and takes another bottle for himself and they drink the water and they enjoy the water and notice it is from a spring or a mountain and he nods and thinks of the mountain and wonders if he will one day accompany him to the mountain and he considers the mountain and for a moment it is tranquil and he listens and nods and looks at his cell phone and there is nothing and he looks towards the window and there is no reflection and he looks at the trees and sees them bend as the truck moves down the road.
they drink coffee and stand outside of the truck and he
smokes cigarettes and he again looks at his cell phone. he notices a
single tree, on the median and becomes regretful and ashamed of his
feeling towards the trees on the roadside and he looks into the concrete and his face becomes soft with remorse. 

In the alleyway they sit on milk crates and watch the crustaceans and the molluscs as they break in the towering flame. He looks at a particular snail and holds it to the light and sees its antenna orbing into the glare and he eats it and feels the oil on his hand and watches the flame from the wok protruding higher than the cook whose legs end at the knees. He becomes envious of the man and perhaps for a moment He admires the man and he looks at the flame and it feels hot on his face.
There is a photograph of him, as a boy, with his father, who laughs and has his arm around his son. Their boat among the others in the harbour and the great lake behind them.
The truck idles and he smiles he hugs him on his way towards his home and he offers him his billfold and he laughs and he puts the billfold back into his pocket and a flood of shame washes from his neck and through his blood and drowns the puffer fish that he’d considered.

There is a parking lot attendant who stands in the field, surrounded by classmates and eventually they all must sprint across the shale and as she nears the front of the line she looks at her cell phone, a blur of mesh and jersey surround her peripheral. The day has proven frivolous and the parking lot attendant goes onto the bus and sits with her backpack against the chair and she wears headphones and arrives at the dirt parking lot where she will wear a safety vest and stand and hold a glowing orange orb and the tires of the truck
clammer and grip into the dirt and he looks at her and she listens to
her headphones and her backpack is nearby and she is avoidant like him
and they avoid eye contact with one another as he passes her and walks
from the dirt to the asphalt and there are seagulls that circle ahead above the great lake.
Some crystals ornaments hang from the ceiling and they will be unmemorable. He looks perturbed and there are many people that he avoids acknowledging or making eye contact with. He sees the boat guy who is broad chested, unlike him. He approaches and they speak to one another and walk towards the harbour where there are many cargo ships, but none that resemble the one that once belonged to his father.
This is a massive irritation and the light reflects off the water and breaks into a cluster of trash that floats around the water. He will admire a series of buoys as a self appointed and frivolousness expression of his wealth and its endless misery. And he will consider the buoys.

There is her, who is taller than he is and he looks up at her and the
introduction is brief. She is intrigued by his discomfort, smiles and is sympathetic and she gestures towards the glass that separates the building from the great lake and she doesn’t have the words to explain her thoughts. And he nods and she will tell her cell phone number to him and she will look pleased and he will see her and he walks away and is unsure if he spoke or did anything aside from stare at the woman, like an imbecile, whose jacket draped over his spine under the crystal ornaments and the seagull that flew into the room and attempted to stab its beak into the back of his skull and he turned and grabbed the bird and called it a bastard and tossed it onto the ground and the seagull flapped its wings and flew back out the way it came. 
There is the parking lot attendant and he will hand her something
from his billfold and he will look at his cell phone and go into the truck.
He will continue to look at the news and he will look at the banana that he had taken from the fruit bowl at his mother’s home and he will look at the sticker on the banana and admire it and take the sticker and he will write a message to the woman on his cell phone and his heart will beat very quickly. And soon there is a message on his cell phone from her and he looks at the cell phone and looks at the banana peel that sits on the coffee table and has smeared onto the glass.
He will think of his father and a large fish that had once swam into
their net and he will think of the blade that tore through the large fish and the iron that seared its flesh.
It is morning and he sits at a table and feels conflicted towards its size and its material which seem irredeemable and made by foolishly and he tries to concentrate on the news on his cell phone but the words are meaningless and his mind moves quickly and he thinks of the rust on the edge of the ship. As he waits ofr her entrance he sees the shoes and the chatter of the people and there is ceramic clinking and it disturbs him and he will order a sip of coffee and it will be brought to him and he will resent the shape of the spoon and the saucer that holds it. There is a photograph of him and his mother, from years ago, taken some time after his father was dead. When she arrives she is exhausted and she smiles at him, who despite
himself does not smile in return despite it being pleasant to see her again. His coffee is finished and he does not want anything else and he looks at some flour or baking soda that is on the granite and she  notices how he mumbles and stutters and she sees him in his oddness and his self consciousness and she sees his sunken eyes, they are fearful and he is almost imaciated and his posture is weak and his teeth have become under bitten in his nervousness. He nods and becomes enamoured in this moment and he looks at his cell phone quickly and he puts his cell phone back into his pocket and she eats a pastry and the flecks of icing sugar sprinkle down before they splatter, and in this moment before the icing sugar has settled onto the table, he has felt free from the relentless self loathing that he knows. He looks at her and she breaks with the same smile that she entered with and she will hope they will see one another again and he is pleased to hear that and he agrees and nods and she leaves the way she entered.
He will sit in the truck and he will be disinterested in the news on his cell phone and he will arrive at the restaurant that has sunken, for the most part, into the surrounding of the other buildings and the concrete and eo stands outside and looks at the pavement and he goes onto his cell phone and paces in a circle and goes back to where they are.
There is a tank and an octopus inside of it and he puts his hand
inside of the tank and the octopus wraps around his hand and the glass
walls cut his arm and the octopus falls off of him and lands in the
sawdust and the dirt and it begins to eat itself and he puts the octopus back into the tank and stares at it while he breaks a sink with his fist and she has written a message to him and he is filled with a certain excitement and contempt and happiness. And the restaurant will open and she will stand with a clipboard and
the cooks will stand on the line and he will slam his fist on the table and crush the octopus with the back end of his clever and he will consider the fish on the board and he will scream at the dishwasher.

Throughout the night the parking attendant will be in the trees and she will stand close to the fire pit and there are people from her school that are inebriated and a boy, who is scraggly haired and has an army surplus jacket, goes to the parking attendant and he has a crumpled piece of loose leaf paper in the pocket of his jacket and he reads off the paper. The words are meaningful to him, an expression of his unbridled self and the parking attendant does not care and she goes onto her cell phone and walks away from him.

They will exit the truck and go into the trees until he looks at his cell phone and the acre is unkempt and a woman wears a bee keeper suit and kneels beside a creek and he kneels beside the creek and she
wears rubber boots and stands in the creek and there are worms among the crab-fish in the mud and she puts her hand into the stream.
There is a massive burnt tree where a man in a bee keeper suit holds a
smoker and he is extremely tall and stands under the tree that was struck by lightning. And the man in the beekeeper suit with the smoker kicks the swarm tree where feral bees become incessant. And the woman in the bee keeper suit opens a hive and pulls out a frame and the man in the bee keeper suit pumps smoke onto the frame, dispersing the bees. A crusted cell is broken off and there are the brood and larvae and mites and the woman in the bee keeper suit eats the cell and he eats some and she also does and she is happy to have it and she stands in the creek and looks at him and watches him carry the bags of honeycomb frames to the trunk of the suv and she is happy to know him
and in the evening she and him will share a bed.
There is a photograph taken on her cell phone of him standing in the great lake as they catch the crustaceans and mollusks into
a bucket and he catches one and shows it to her. she catches the
crustaceans and mollusks much faster than he does and he is excited and catches a snail and he inspects it closely and she grabs the
snail out of his hand and they eat the snail.
And as the days pass she will explain to him that she must go towards
a greater cause and he remembers the thing from before where he met her and how unmemorable it was. And it becomes true that perhaps they will not see one another again.
She will not to come to the raccoon house and his flashlight is from his cell phone and he sees the racoon eyes and in this moment he feels
absent from his body, his thoughts considering the trees as they bend from the window on the road and air and the sky and he looks at the decrepit wood that is rotten and the garbage at his feet is wet and he goes to the roof of the house and sees the dumpsters and the moon and the banana sticker that he had kept is in his pocket and he sits on the roof and feels the stucco of the roof of the small house and in the morning he sits in
the truck, with his cell phone and he answers his call and he looksoff past the window and he will go back to the dirt parking lot and now it
is empty and the parking attendant is not there. 
He stands in the harbour and says nothing and he waits and realizes, perhaps, what he has felt and he laughs at his misery, like a dumb buoy, wading and dead. An assistant is among him and they will go to the ship, which towers over the others and it is the one that once belonged to his father and now, through his merciless pity, he will acquire the boat and they will walk over the grate and along until there are many shipping containers and the daylight causes them to squint towards the salt of the great lake. 
And the anchor will sever the trout and there are many people in the dining area and he will stand and become avoidant of them and he will look at his cell phone and go towards the concrete and pace and look
at the cement and the sky and it is late and the air and the sky, like the vacuum dust and the perpetual juice machine are attached to an extension cord that leads towards an outlet in the hallway. 
There are bins overhead and she will bring them to him who has
returned from the raccoon house, dragging a leaking trash bag and her
cell phone rings and she walks away from him and past the mound of
snails that are dumped onto the counter and rinsed into the sink and
he will consider the snails from the row of plastic containers and the
minced psychotic mind of the racoon is fried into the mite ridden larvae and the snail antenna towers in the flame that burns in the light.
And he is found in the hallway, an octopus wrapped around his arm
and he will remind him of the promise he made, that he will one day
turn him to broth and he will laugh and he will put his arm on his shoulder and be thankful to his friend and it seems the man’s affliction and his joy have overtaken his livelihood and he is gone.
He looks at the people and the hollowness of the room and the concrete wall where the octopus had been wrapped around his arm and he goes back into the kitchen and watches the iron pots which have no purpose and hr blinks and goes to the fridge where the butcher is and the butcher understands what he has said. And he goes back into the kitchen and watches the copper pots and the steam surrounds the plates as he works the dishwasher and he goes into the hallway and returns with this friend, and continues to observe the plates and eventually the body of his friend and the butcher arrives and he follows the butcher into the fridge and their breath and the dishes and the meat and the apron of the butcher become bloody and the cauldron is brought back and the stock has begun.
And he will not return to his home, he will remain in the kitchen and
he will taste the stock and he will serve the stock as it is, and he enjoys the water and notices it is from a spring or a mountain and there are worms among the crab-fish in the mud and she puts her hand into the stream and in the days that follow it will become true that
his failure will amount to nothing more than the failure that he
knew.
He will rummage through the potatoes, picking off the stems and
he will look through the bins that he has organized and he will
take one of the potato stems from the bin and he will inspect it closely in the light before eating it and he will ask him about the stem and he will be unclear in what he has said and he will give him the banana sticker and he will become dubiously proud of the banana
sticker. 
The parking attendant will arrive home and her father will play an
electric guitar that is routed through a series of effects pedals and there is a poster on the wall above him of a man who plays the guitar in front of many adoring people. He drinks a bottle of beer and smokes from a glass bong and the television is on and the parking lot attendant goes to the kitchen and there are chicken fingers scattered around a baking sheet and the parking lot attendant will eat the  hicken fingers and wish her father goodnight and she will go into her bedroom, to sleep and her father will unplug the guitar from the amplifier but still he will continue to play while watching tv. 

And he He will look at his cell phone and he will type a message to her, about the potato stems and perhaps they could be arranged as teeth, to resemble the trout’s jaw. And he considers his failure and the broth and the salt of the great lake.

* * * 

A seagull passes. and goes towards the water. He wears a sweater and a jacket and socks but no pants or underwear. He tosses a newspaper onto the pillow and looks at his cell phone. 
She is running and wearing headphones and spandex. She stops at the water. 
He will mostly stand beside the bed. Occasionally pacing around the room. She will sit in the sand and do stretches.
He stares deeply into the phone. Until she writes a message. 

What happened with carpet. 

He calls her. She declines it.

My battery die 12% only

Ok

In three hours he messages her again.  

bananas .68 lb, what are you doing

At hospital

All day?

Ya

will you charge your phone

no

I resced carpet

My phone is lvery dead though 4%

Even though I just charged it
And already dead how fucked is that
literally now 2 percent

Herman takes his glasses on and off and zooms in and out of the picture of her. 

He sits at the gate with the newspaper. He looks at his cell phone. 

Her phone phone charges in the hallway. Of the hospital. 

I have a weird feeling
about carpet
obsessed
don’t know why
I called them to confirm
But They didnt pick up

Did you leave a message

No

Can you do it

Ok

He scrolls around and finds the number. It rings through.

They didn’t answer

Did you leave a message

No

Can you?

Ok

He calls again. At voicemail--

I uhm
Uh

And the now boarding announcement.
I uhm
had an appointment today
for two pm
and I won’t be there so give me a
call back
6474586409
two oclock
thanks

He hangs up.

when you sent that picture yesterday

Another boarding announcement. Zone 2.

I was at the beach
not hospital
I lied

Youre allowed if you want
go to the beach
or whatever

Literally lyign
to go for a run

Its ok

If someone lies to you
You should be like what the fuck

you have to say that
or else youre going to feeling
Like what the fuck
I lied
You can trust me
That i will lie

No you dont’

when I’m not here
In the hopsital
Im so guilty
Like i feel so guilty
That it feels better to lie
About it
fucked
And I know you want to be here wiht
me
But then I’ll be taking care of you
the whole time
my sister is fucked
in a real way
And I’m trying to be there for her
becuase I’ve fucked off so much
And now she needs me here
without distraction

He gets up. He walks the opposite direction of the gate.

the food is so shitty
And i want them to bring good food
for her
Just stop bringing this fucking
shitty food to us

He walks farther away from the gate.

Are you eatin git though

No

What did you eat instead

granola thing

From where

Downstairs place

Which is also shitty too

What kind was it

oat 

Was it good

Th e nurses arnt telling me fuck
all
But if I’m not here no one else
will be
And then she’s just alone

Its good yoru there

theresa woman in the room right by
the elevator
She’s never in the bed
ALways in the chair by the bed
she lays with her head back and her
legs move sometmes but in slow
motion
shes has been there every day
Her husband was there for the first
few days ... just like holding her
hand
but then he wisn’t there anymore
and I thought like he died
and then her gown kept falling down
and I dont think any nurse was
checking up on her that often
because hse was basically already
dead
Literally shes 99 years old or 93
and the first time i saw that I
didn’t do anything
The gown
Tthen another day it was still like
that and I just kind of shut the
door and her head was just cranked
back over the back of the chair and
the guy wasn’t there anymore and
she was just like her mouth was
wide open in kind of permanent
scream
I remember thinking like
what would even happen
I just remember looking at her
I feel like it was so dumb to think
this but I just remember thinking
that buefore i met you I didn’t
have sex for a long time six months
And that was a long time ago
Before we had sex
for the first time but
Even though that guy died on the
way or fucekd off I can just tell
She was loved and she knew it and
was ok with that
Which beats any death
I kept thinking her name was
Diahhrea
which is fucked and evil but .....
That’s what i thought her name was
Princess diahhrea
But I look at my sister
Who doesn’t even know im here
And I think she is also princess
diarea and I know she won’t die
so I guess I wanted to give her
that nick name after that old woman
who would die
Even if she didn’t die in the
hopsital shes dead soon probablty
obviously
Its fucked
my sister will wake up after being
dead
And i will give her that name
I already thought she was dead
One day she was awake and smiling
and eating
And i thought it was like my fault
that it seemed like she was getting
better
But then she was gone
The day after
And I thought she wsa dead
And I thought I would cry when I
came home
But on the way out of the elevator
on the way out on the ground floor
She was there
And her husband was there
And I think he must have taken her
out for a walk
So no one was even dead
Not even him like I thought
Or her
And I just like thought I was legit
telepathic
that I snet that thought to her
To become happy
but I want to send that to MY sister
But it isnt working
maybe its working
her husband should have been there
the whole time
what asshole husband wasnt by her
side no matter what
if she was shitting herself or had
her own catheder in her nostrils
eating her own shit and even if she
would rather die than have him be
there for being such a ffuck face
asshole and see her like that he
should have just showed the fuck up
and stayed

He stops.
He’s not that good at running. By the time he gets back to the gate the plane has already taken off. He watches it fly into a cloud.

Did you leave a message?
for the carpet

ya

they were late
But they took the measurements and
its good
so that’s probably what you were
sensing
that they were late
They said they never check the
voicemail
But they were just late


did they leave already

Ya

what did they say?

It’s fine. They just took the measurements now

did you show them the drips from the window?

Ya. We have to get the caulking redone

can we just do it on our own or do we need to get someone?

I don’t know

Can we do it ourselves? Before they put the new carpet in or else what’s the point?

What do you think about going back to hardwood?

are you being serious?

I don’t know.

Can you do the caulking? can you go to home depot

Carpet is really dumb. We should rip it out and get hardwood or just leave what we already have and spend them money on getting new lights. Our lights are no good. They don’t make any sense. or we get the hardwood and the lights. we can just reno the whole fucking place. It doesn’t matter

My phone is actually fucked
Like it’s plugged in right now and
the battery is draining
i know youre feeling fucked
But you are okYou dont have a
choice
We have to be apart for a while
right now

He reads the message. He watches the plane move to the runway. He turns to walk back. The plane takes off behind him.  

how much are bananas there

.71 lb

really

ya

that's good

Ya

* * * 






















He walked around the fence looking on the ground. Money or something. The grass was dead and beige. Some of the others ran through the dirt or stood clustered around the hill. The stout woman on patrol moved slowly. Her raw and sour scent wafted through the corridor. He did not exist to her and did not want to. He looked at her and could see how the thought in her mind was that they were all merely dumb animals.

She left the corridor and he looked down it towards where some of the others were. He could not be seen going down there and so he would not try to run. He would go with his eyes forward. 

There were two girls kissing at the end of a corridor. One of them looked at him as he passed. She looked familiar to him but he did not know why. He walked along the fence that separated the field from the parking lot. There was garbage along it. An empty pizza box, an empty package of cigarettes. He took the pack and looked at the shiny tinfoil. He crumpled it in his hand and then dropped it. He looked at the cars in the parking lot until the yard bell rang. All of the people moved back into the building. But he stayed, hidden where he'd planned, behind a concrete wall. And he walked around.
There were guys standing there. They smoked cigarettes and they ate
pizza. He walked up and stood around them.
They looked at him.
He kicked through the trash along the fence and  tried to listen to what they talked about. He kicked something on the ground and then gave them the middle finger. He didn’t look at them. He just held his finger out.
He ran back towards the corridor and he fell onto the ground. He felt the gravel go into his palm. He felt his knee scrape and he cut his hands. He sat looking at the gravel and looking at the blood and the way his skin was cut. 

There was a book of matches on the ground. He messed up lighting the
first few but then lit a plastic juice box straw on fire. It melted into a new shape like a worm dying in the sun. There was cardboard pushed into the corner of the wall. He lit it on fire and watched it burn. 

He pressed the spout on the fountain but it barely worked. His blood was in the white porcelain along with some of the dirt. He saw the part of his skin that was ripped. He kept washing his hand and then he drank the water. 

Down the hallway. He went and took a piece of tape and put it onto his hand to bandage it. He sat and put his head down and held the book of matches in his pocket. There were pencil shavings on the ledge. They had a layer of dust on them. He pushes them between his thumb and finger. The oil from his skin combining to create some kind of gunk. Sitting in that chair. Staring at the grain of the wood and the faceless cutouts around him, the back of their heads staring back. He took the pencil shavings and pushed them along the page, smearing the graphite. One girl had her hand up and spoke quietly and said, mine. Um. There’s nothing on mine. 

He looked at his food tray. At the peas. He ate the bread as fast as he was able to. He ate the beans until the smell became so rank that he could not eat it any longer. He tossed his tray at the stack. It hit the others and went onto the floor. There was the guard, seeing what he had done. That he had left a smear of beans on the tray and then threw it onto the ground. He walked faster down the hall and moved through the other people, the fabrics of their clothes brushing
against his face. Down the staircase he turned to see if the guard had
followed him. He sat below the stairs and saw a half used pencil on the ground. Back later, he went to the pencil sharpener and cranked it until the pencil was as sharp as it would go. He held it in his fist but when he turned it upside down the lead fell out. 

He waited on the concrete and walked up and down the part that curved. He climbed up farther to see the roof of the building. There was a door that led up there and steam poured upward. He cimbed higher to see what else there was but he couldn’t look from the right angle. He a woman try to get into the door but it was locked and she looked at a piece of paper and then walked towards the lot. How followed her to a different door around the side of the building. 

He stood again, sharpening the pencil so that it become so small he would have to hold it with his eraser. He turned the crank and there it was. A graphite claw. He tucked it into his fist. Between his knuckles. 

The woman stood infront of him, he stared at her with his jaw open. As she spoke the room became quiet and his attention moved in and out. She could see him looking around the room. He put his head down and when he looked up again he saw a full new pencil infront of him. He looked at the woman and she looked away from him and then back at him again and he could not tell if she was smiling or not. He felt his face become red and his blood exploded and curdled and he felt something. 

He stood in the field and thought of the woman. He thought that maybe if he saw her again he would say something to her. He looked back up and found a way past the doorway and the fountain and went up to the top of the staircase to where the roof was.

The air became thin and quiet. He watched everyone below. Like a bunch of assholes. He looked at all of the cars in the lot. The idiot cars. 

Back inside. Carefully. Down the stairs. He passed someone in the
stairwell. He kept his face downward. He moved quickly, feeling their eyes on him, he bolted, his feet moved so fast they looked like unspooling rope.
A door slammed above him. The echo went through the stairwell. He stopped moving. He heard no footsteps. He stayed in the stairwell. and went towards the window, looking out into the parking lot again. He stared at it until his eyes became blurry. His forehead leaned against the window and he tried to look at the roof from there. To see where he was. He imagined the woman standing on top of the building. He imagined her looking out at the parking lot the same way he was looking out at the parking lot. He imagined that she saw the cars. He imagined that she jumped off of the building. He imagined how it
would feel for her to do that. How the pavement would look and  expand like water and she would fall into it like a portal. And how it would feel to become nothing and everything and to be dead. 

He stayed and stared out the window and did not see a single car move from the lot. He felt his head against the glass until his stomach felt like it was burning until it occupied his mind completely. And still he did not move. He wanted to know what would happen if he did nothing. If his stomach would burn through his skin and fall onto the ground. And eventually the boredom turned to stillness.

He thought of an auto shop he had seen a long time ago. He thought that the cars he saw there had a good life, having gotten to go to the auto shop. Any part of the car that got smashed, no matter how destroyed, even if two trucks drove from opposite ends of the street at full speed and exploded. The guys at the auto shop would stand there in their uniforms and they wouldn’t even care about the people that were in the accident. They would just repair the trucks. 

He went to the other side of the field and looked at the cars in the parking lot from another direction. He looked at them and he was trying to imagine each of them driving down the road. He imagined how each one would drive and how each one of them would get smashed if they crashed into a wall. Some of the cars were laughably stupid. He was becoming tired from looking at all of the cars. He went to the fence and sat against it. He looked at his hand. He pulled at the skin where he cut himself. He couldn’t get it off so he nibbled at it. He felt it in his teeth. He got it off and then spit it onto the concrete. He thought that bit of skin could destroy a big truck if it was in the right place. If that truck hit that bit of skin it would go into the air, it would get launched up and it would rip along the concrete. It would be like his own palm on the gravel when he ripped it up. But instead the truck was the gravel and it ripped the road like it was his skin. He jumped up and felt great thinking about that happening. He laughed for a moment. Thinking about that truck ripping through the road like skin. He went along the side of the building. He thought of the woman on the roof again. He thought of her jumping off of the building and he continued to think of her. He thought of how her legs looked. He wondered why her legs looked the way that she did. He went back into the building. He went to the water fountain again. He wanted drink some of the water but it wasn’t working. Probably because some idiot was using the toilet and flushing it over and over
again. And then this guy came out and he walked slowly. He was much bigger than him and he looked upset. 

Who the fuck are you. 
Nothing. 
Move faggot.
Fuck you bitch. He held up his middle finger and then the guy took a swing at him and knocked him down. He was in a daze. He didn’t understand what just happened. It was like his memory burst like a light bulb. He got up and put his fists up and lay in a few punches. He was fast and he punched that him as fast as he could but the guy was too big and his fists went into him like twigs in a sponge. He took him in his hand and squeezed him down like a water balloon. And he was going to explode but he launched outward with his best punch and it hit the bastard in the cheek. That got him. But it
wasn’t enough. And he got thrown into the water fountain. It hit against his spine and he stayed under the water fountain hoping no one would see him. He could not fight any longer. He could only hide.

Don’t talk to me again, the guy said to him and walked down the hall and got out of there.

He stayed under the water fountain and held his ribs and whimpered.

He watched some people walk by. They didn’t stop or notice him. Except one girl. The one who was making out with the other girl in the corridor. He thought for a moment that this is where he recognized her from but this had not happened yet. She asked him if he was okay but he didn’t answer her. He rolled over and got up and limped down the hallway holding his ribs. He walked further down the corridor and went to the cars in the parking lot. He wanted to find a truck but there
weren’t any trucks. He tried the doors, to find one that was unlocked when he saw the gaurd again. He ran through the lot and went down, to the staircase. Running and clutching his ribs and trying not to look back. 

Another room was completely dark. He could hear something breaking beneath his feet. He moved in the darkness until he found a space. He crouched in the darkness. He closed his eyes and there seemed to be some brightness there. Something below him moved. He jumped upward. He felt even his blood leave his entire body. It felt like it floated above him. He ran and there was the guard. 

The guard walked towards him and he reached into his pocket and took the full pencil that the woman gave him in his fist. 
What are you doing man? 
The guard came near him he took the pencil and he jammed it
into him. The guard looked up at him and tried to reach out but collapsed and the blood pooled. He stared at the guard who twitched strangely. He went down the hallway. He looked to see if there was somewhere to go. He was frantic and still. He went to back along to the other end of the gate. Over to where the end of the fence was and back to where the woman went and when he got to the top of the stairs the air became quiet and like it was cutting into him.

An alarm sounded and white lights around the building flashed. Below him people were being positioned into line ups. 

When he heard the door open he climbed onto the ledge of the building and looked down at the cement. It was how he imagined the woman looking down. There was an awning he could jump down to. He climbed upward balancing along the edge and before he jumped he felt a hand take him by the scruff of the neck. He was suspended in mid air and then he felt his arms paralyzed and his face hit against the gravel. 

* * *





He thought that he was in a box. He thought of what moved in the basement. Perhaps it was a rat or a racoon. Or perhaps in a way it was him in this moment. Suffocated by the concrete. he slept on the bottom bunk. underneath some kid who was pleasant and smiling. He seemed to always be in a good mood and laughed at what anyone said. The punishment that he had imagined for going farther than he should have. He was not scared of it. But in a way he wished he had been. The fucking worst thing that could have ever happened to him was to live his life with these mother fucking guys. Without any break. This was his hell. Even when he took a shower. Those bastards were there. They ate together. The damn noodles. The old vegetables. They stood in the yard together. They did their classes together. It was shit. Even if they wanted anything to do with Herman then he didn’t want anything to do with them. He thought that one of them was okay. He saw that that guy didn’t talk to any of the other guys either. That guy just sat there and stared at the window and played chess against himself. Herman didn’t know how to play chess. But he watched that guy play. he
tried to get some sense of how the pieces moved but he had no idea.
The guy would see Herman looking at him. If Herman saw that then he would leave the room and go somewhere else. He didn’t want that guy to
know what he was thinking.
He wondered about that chess guy. The chess guy had a long scar that
went from the base of his skull and continued all the way along his face and
ended at his adam’s apple. His had a buzz cut so the scar was visible. The
man was also missing each of his hands. he moved the chess pieces at his
elbow.
Herman didn’t want to know what had happened to that guy.
There was another guy named Paul. Paul was the fattest guy there. He
laughed a lot and seemed like everything was great. But there was
something behind his laugh that was terrorizing.
They still had to go to classes. But they were different. Now they only
talked about what they needed to know. The facts. And then they would sit
there and they would read quietly. Somehow Herman seemed to be able to
work better here. It was like the work was now the only salvation from the
monotony of the day. The books and the things that he learned were the
only escape.
They were able to watch tv for a certain amount of time. Just two shows
after dinner.
On the weekends they would get to watch a movie. Which everyone got
very excited about. Including Herman.
Every once in a while when the movie was good enough he would laugh
and he would see Sean laugh too. Sean was the bastard with the scar. Paul
laughed at everything but then after the movie was done he said that he
hated the movie.
Herman liked all the movies that they watched. He didn’t care. He just
liked watching them.
Herman had to speak to a shrink every now and again. they were some
kind of guidance councillor.
They spoke to him about the guard. They asked what he thought about
the guard. They asked him why he did what he did. He did not want to tell them about the food tray. And how he had tossed it without consideration
those days before.
Herman saw that the room he spoke to the shrink in was quite dark and
it was hard to see the shrink’s face. For a long time he thought that the
shrink was a woman but one day realized that it was a man. And some days
Herman was unsure if that was correct or not.
After not speaking for some time Herman interrupted Paul who was
talking back to a radio show that he was listening to. He said, “hey man.”
“Yo.” said Paul.
“You think the shrink is a girl or a boy?”
Paul didn’t laugh. He laughed at everything but he didn’t laugh at that.
Herman could see that he offended Paul by asking that question. It was as if
Paul was not going to engage in that conversation. Herman went back to his
bunk.
Paul continued to listen to the radio. And he didn’t laugh for some time
after Herman spoke to him.
Herman spent a lot of time lying in his bed staring at the springs above
him. He tried to lose himself inside of the coils but he could not. When he
thought Paul was sleeping sometimes he would toss an imaginary tennis ball
at the wall.
He was unconcerned by what Sean thought of him. It seemed that Sean
did not care or pay attention.
“I wouldn’t trust that shrink with much,” Sean said to him one day.
Herman looked at him. He took a few minutes to respond. He lay on his
bunk. Holding his imaginary tennis ball.
“Why?”
“Because they’re fucked.”
“Why?”
“It’s impossible to be yourself. Because you do not exist. That is a fact.
But that shrink. They will try to stray you into believing an illusion. That
you are special. But. You are not.”
Sean played with the chess pieces for another few minutes before Herman answered again.
“Special how?”
Sean did not respond. He muttered to himself as he moved the chess
pieces around.
“He’s right. None of us exist and in fact. I am already dead,” Paul said
and laughed.
This made Sean smile. Herman saw that he was between two people who
had connected with one another in a way he believed and understood. He
smiled some as well.
“Yo man,” Paul said.
Herman looked at him. Despite himself he was not good at mustering a
response in an instance like this.
“I ever tell you about my old girlfriend?”
Herman shrugged.
“Love of my life. Hottest chick I’ve ever seen. You’ve got no idea.”
“How many chicks you even seen in your life man?” Herman said.
Paul laughed and said, “good point.”
They ate lunch. They were given canned soup and a few bags of saltine
crackers.
After eating in silence Herman said the word “saltines.”
Paul also said it, “saltines.”
And then Sean said it, “saltines.”
Paul stood up on his chair and said, “mother fucker, saltines are god!”
Herman and Sean smiled at that. Paul continued to scream that phrase
with his fists at the sky.
Herman looked up at him. The ceiling fan twirled above his fists. From
that angle it looked like he would be diced into oblivion but it was not the
case.
When the guard came and got Paul to sit down Herman thought of the
one from his old school and he stopped laughing. Paul sat back down and
looked inside of his soup bowl. The cracker had turned to mush. He called

to the guard and asked if he could get a few more saltines.
“No.”
“When you were apprehending me my final saltine turned to mush.”
“That’s it for crackers.”
“Man. You got to give me another pack!”
“Finish your bowl.”
“I will not.”
“Fine.”
Sean said to Paul, “your theory.”
“Yes?”
“That we are already dead.”
“Yes.”
“This saltine then. It was mush upon its inception. Was it not?”
Sean took the bowl from him and ate the cracker and the soup.
Paul laughed his ass off at that and said, “touche.”
Paul reached his fist.
Sean wiped the soup off his face.
Paul continued to hold out his fist. He said, “pound it.” Paul was lost in
that moment and had not considered that Sean had no fist on either hand.
Sean looked ashamed.
“Yo, pound it.”
It then became apparent that Paul knew exactly what he was saying and
was fully aware that Sean had no fists.
Sean looked ashamed. But as Paul left his offer out with conviction, he
reached his arm and pounded Paul’s fist with his elbow.
“Nice,” said Paul.
And that was how lunch went that day.
It was morning and when Herman woke up he saw Paul sitting in his
bed. He was upright but leaning forwards. He looked dizzy and his eyes
fluttered. Herman was confused by the way he looked. He didn’t want to
pay attention to him. He didn’t want to deal with whatever was going on.
He lay on the mattress and stared at the springs. Often he would lay like
that until he was forced to go for breakfast. He felt crippled. In some state
of laziness and indecision.
Some mix of guilt and concern stirred inside of him. Or perhaps it was
an impulse towards heroism. He did not want to go over to Paul. In that
Paul would see who he was. Or who he was trying to be. Herman did not
want to be seen by Paul and he did not want to be seen by Sean.
Most of the time he preferred not to move so that Paul and Sean did not
know he was awake. If he was not awake he did not exist. And second best
to that if he was awake he would prefer to be the only person that knew
that.
He could hear that Paul was making a strange noise. It was something
between snoring, coughing and laughing. Perhaps he was some kind of
animal.
This was how he got his ass kicked and thrown at a water fountain. Was
he such a fool to now go close to this sleeping beast and wake him? To
whose fortune?
Herman could hear that Sean moved his chess piece across the board. It
was unordinary at first that Sean was always at that table. His bed was
always made because he never went into it. He stayed up later than Herman
and he woke up before him. Always sitting at that board. Pushing a piece.
Pushing his chair to the other end of the table. At times it did wake
Herman. And it pissed him off but he knew it was necessary. He never
questioned Vic’s need to play chess. But whatever the hell Paul was doing
now. It was something else.
Sean yelled to him and said, “Hey Man.”
Paul didn’t respond. He continued to sway back and forth.
Sean said, “man.”
Sean got up and went to Paul. Paul hardly reacted to him. Herman got
up and went over.
“What’s he doing man?” Herman asked Sean.
“Fuckin being a piece of shit. Man. Wake up.”
Herman looked at Paul and saw that there was a small bag of crushed
salts in his hand. He looked at Paul’s face and had never seen anyone look
so idiotic. But he did not think Paul was an idiot. Not like the other people
he’d known.
Herman didn’t know what that bag was but as soon as he saw it he
knew it almost inhabited a different reality than the one that he had known.
Herman looked at that bag and felt that it was inevitable. He could see
what it had done to Paul but it somehow Paul’s nature in this was beyond a
choice of his own. It was a part of him.
At breakfast Paul’s eyes looked puffy and absent but he still laughed in
the way he always had. He did not acknowledge the state he was in or what
had happened. Herman didn’t ask him and he ate his toast and peanut
butter and Sean did not either.
Paul spoke about something he heard on the radio. As he always did.
There was a show that he said was on late at night that he stayed up for. A
show about the unexplained. They discussed chem trails in the sky. He said
that they were not what anyone thought that they were. Paul could see that
Herman was interested in what he was saying, despite his ordinary
quietness.
Herman didn’t understand what Paul was saying but he didn’t hate
listening to him speak.
But then Sean mentioned something. He said that there was no fucking
radio. Paul laughed maniacally at that. Paul said that he knew why Sean
thought that. Paul was not angry at being told he was wrong. In fact it
seemed to bring him an unexplainable joy. And that was strange to Herman.
He could see that Paul’s laugh, in its chaos was contagious. It was difficult
for them to all not laugh when Paul got going.
When they were outside for the hour Paul sat on the bench and stared at
the grass. He laughed to himself.
Eventually there was a plane overhead. Herman looked up at the plane.
His eyes blinded by the sun. He held out his hand.
Paul saw him doing that and said, “you see that?”
Herman nodded. 
“You see those chem trails.”
Herman shrugged.
“You see em? They’re right there.”
“The lines?”
“That’s right.”
“Chem trails my friend.”
Herman looked ahead at the fence. The sun spots were bright in his eyes
and he tried not to blink. Because he didn’t like the lines that he saw. And
he didn’t like looking at planes.
Herman stood with his forehead pushed against the window. The glass
was cold and seemed soothing to him. He had not thought of the guard
often. The man with the red hair that was parted in the middle. He knew
that man was dead. And when he thought about that his thoughts split into
many directions. He remembered a clarity that he had, when he used to
stand in the stairwell and stare into the parking lot.
He imagined a shark with metal skin who tried to eat its own bones. In
a desperate attempt at self sacrifice. To escape the the shame that was felt.
He imagined the shark being unable to do so. It was too much to face. He
imagined that shark looking towards the sky and eating a cloud and
chewing on it like it was cud but there was no ability to swallow and
without being in the water the shark could not swallow.
Sean saw that Herman was hitting his head against the glass. Over and
over again. Sean urged him to stop. But he could see that Herman could not
hear him.
Sean tried to take Herman away from the window but he could not
grasp him with his elbows.
“Paul,” said Sean.
But Paul was in some state of euphoria.
“Herman. Man. Come on,” Sean tried to pull Herman from the window.
But it was to no avail and Herman pushed Sean backwards. Still Sean tried
again.
Herman pushed him again. More viciously. This sent Sean into the chess
table. Knocking the pieces into the air.
Herman would not remember what he said to Sean in that moment. He
knew that he was filled with rage and told him to fuck off in a disturbing
myriad of ways
Sean did not take offence to this. He could see clearly that Herman was
in battle with only himself. Sean recognized this as more familiar to him
than anything. As Sean spent his life sitting at opposite ends of the chess
grid moving closer and closer to the centre of his faults and growing both
his ability to kill and his ability to die.
Paul awoke from his trance. And came over. In one movement he took
Herman, who was a third of his size, and held his arms behind his back.
Trapping him like the police would.
“There is one thing I do not believe in my friend,”
Herman squirmed for his dear life. He had returned to where he was
when he had tried to escape the school and the cycle of rage that consumed
him.
“I do not believe in using physical force as a means of control. But you
man. You are going to hurt yourself.”
Herman demanded to be let go and continued to fight. But he was no
match for Paul. And it seemed that no amount of biting or stomping
affected Paul. He was invincible.
And eventually Herman exhausted himself. Paul released him.
Herman was drenched in his sweat and Paul’s sweat. The smell was rank
but Paul was unfazed by it.
As Sean removed his slipper and used his foot to rearrange the chess
pieces exactly how they were. He was not enraged that the board was
knocked over. He knew the position of every piece.
Herman sat on the ground and Paul and Sean were there with him.
None of them said anything for some time.
They didn’t ask Herman about his rage or expect him to have a reason.
It was then that Herman, despite himself, felt some sense of camaraderie

that he hadn’t known before.
Herman did not know why Paul or Sean were in the room with him. He
understood that they were not allowed to leave and all three of them were
forced to be there, against their will. But what lead them to being there in
the first place.
He did not know if the crimes they commit were more heinous than his.
He did not know if the crimes they commit were heinous at all. It was true
that they may both have been misunderstood. It was true that there may
have been no justice to their actions. It was true that they may have been
evil and deserved every moment of their suffering. It was true that no
matter how much suffering they had done and would do would never be
enough to amount to what they had deserved.
The three boys sat in a stew of the pity they shared. And eventually Paul
took the bag from his pocket. He put it onto the ground.
Sean had some. And then he became like Paul was when he sat on the
bed. Herman’s heartbeat took an exceptional leap when he looked at the bag.
He took it, the same way Sean did, albeit more clumsily, and in that action
felt the space between himself and his thoughts vastly expand. But in
moments, that space became filled with a sense of euphoria that was beyond
his comprehension.
The rage that spewed from within him overflowed from his orifices and
cooled. The lava became bits of rock that gently floated into the sky and
became distant flickers of light.
Herman felt so far removed from himself and from his reality it was
possible that he would never return. It was possible that in that moment, he
had entered a vacuum that was not blissful or violent, it was absent beyond
his total comprehension. A dead person would have a more enriched
conscious than him in that moment. And it is possible that he was, for that
time, dead.
For that moment there was no shark or cloud. There was no guard and
there was no tray in the cafeteria. There was no Ms. Eerie, there were no
pencil shavings and there were no mattress springs. There was no chem trail
in the sky and there was no auto shop.
Until a glimmer of hopelessness tore into the absence and began to
slowly and gently flood this even more vast void that Herman had
excavated. He was tired and he went to the mattress. He sat on it. The foam
seemed to take on some new reality.
Herman thought of the foam rectangle. And after some time, without
realizing it, he began to pick at its edge. Gnawing it to take on a more
frayed and dull shape.
Herman stared at a tree and it felt more dead to him now. Herman felt
in this moment that he felt hollow and empty but somehow there was a
numbness to it. This was changing. There was a stream of fire that burned
inside of him. He felt it at the base of his neck and the top of his chest. It
seemed that it twirled and tried to grasp onto the emptiness. Perhaps it was
akin to a desperate serpent squiggling as it fell into a canyon or maybe it
was merely a worm in the sun but it was undeniably him and it seemed to
come without reason or warning and it would leave the same. He pushed
his fist into the bark of the tree and felt it scratch his knuckle. He rubbed
his fist up and down against the grain. The bark broke off and fell into the
grass. This seemed to help the pain on the inside so he continued to do it
until it was time to go back inside.
He looked at the skin on his knuckle and the way it frayed and the little
lines that were inside the red part before the blood came. He sat on the
bench staring at his knuckle. Paul and Sean knew that he was in no mood
to speak that day and they let him be and did not try to interfere. Some
days were very quiet and each of them seemed to be very separate from one
another.
Herman struggled to read the book that was assigned to him. He would
look at the words and his mind would wander. Sometimes he would know
that he looked at all of the words on the page but nothing happened. He had
some sense of what it felt like but he did not understand it.
The guard that was with them in the library asked him if he knew how
to read. Herman said that he did.
The guard asked him to read aloud as he saw the words on the page.
Herman did so. It made him nervous for other people to hear his voice
in that way. He still tried. The guard could see that Herman could read but
he could see him stutter through.
“Do you like the book, Herman?”
Herman shrugged.
“If you’re bored by this book. Maybe there’s another one that you’ll like
more.”
“I dunno.”
“Go look at the other books and find one that you like.”
There were two long shelves with books on either sides. Herman looked
at each title. The guard still sat at the table. He paid attention to what
Herman was doing. He could see how meticulous he was about deciding. It
seemed to mean something to the guard, that Herman was paying attention
to the titles and that he was very careful about his choice.
Herman did not find a book that he wanted to read. But he had only
gone through a small section of the shelf.
They ran out of time.
“Anything look good to you?”
Herman shrugged again. In his usual way.
The guard ripped off a piece of paper and said, “put this where you left
off on the shelf. Tomorrow start from there. You can keep looking until you
find something you are interested in.”
Herman took the paper and put it where he left off.
During that time Sean drew diagrams of chess pieces. He was at a
certain juncture that he had been working on for a long time. The guard
would try to engage with him about the problem and Sean would explain to
him exactly what the issue was but the guard did not understand the detail
to the full extent.
The guard saw that Sean has found solace in this problem. It keep his
mind tense and occupied. It kept him from having to deal with what he had
done to end up where he was. It kept his intellect sharp in a way that his
emotions had no chance of coming near his thought process. It was a
compulsion.
The guard considered suggesting to Sean that he teach Paul and Herman
to play. He was unsure if it was the right choice. He could see on one hand
how it might allow Sean to communicate and to teach. But he could see
how frustrated and alienated Sean may feel. Seeing that no one can speak
his language clearly. He thought of asking Herman, one day, if Sean had ever
asked him to play, but he hadn’t yet.
Paul on the other hand read books so fast that it was impossible to keep
up with him. He would often laugh loudly as he read them. He didn’t seem
to have much of a preference for one book or another. He didn’t seem to
care to judge them. He understood what the author was trying to say and
that was enough for him.
The guard could see that the three of them were ordinarily cooperative
with one another. This was rare. The other rooms were more often than not
at odds.
But he could see as well that some days, the three boys would come to
the library and none of them would do much of anything. He could see that
their brains were mush. He could see that their eyes were glazed over. The
apathy seemed programmed. It happened a few times before he called them
together.
“Guys. Come here.”
“Yes sir.” Paul said.
“I’m not going to narc you out. Let’s start with that.”
“Narcs are fuckers.”
“I’m not going to ask what you’re taking or where you’re getting what
you’re getting. But I’m going to say I can see it. If you don’t give a shit then
that’s that. But if you want to talk about it. Here. I’ll give you my word that
it will stay between us.”
None of them said anything. 
They would not admit to knowing what he was talking about.
Herman did not know where Paul got what he did. Paul was always very
generous about what he had and never asked for anything in return. He
didn’t like to conserve what he had. It seemed that as soon as he had
something new, he wanted to get rid of it right away.
Sean took more of what Paul had than Herman did at first. But then one
day, without explanation Sean swore it off and never touched any of it ever
again. Paul never tried to persuade him back towards it. Sean told him that
he was done with it and Paul never asked him for it again.
Herman on the other hand was different. He was too shy to ask Paul for
any but he would hover around and Paul would alway set some up for him.
Paul and Herman would sit and stare blankly at nothing while Sean would
do the same, but he was hyper focused on his chess game.
At first it seemed that Herman did it with something in mind, as a way
to combat what he was feeling. But eventually it became different. It was
like he was trying to do it because it was there. He didn’t know what he
thought about when he was on it. It just created distance. And then he
began to think about it when he wasn’t on it. He wanted more of it. But
Paul would run out of it. Because he took it all quickly when he had it.
Herman became angry at this. Because he needed some. And when there
was no he was helpless in getting any.
In the library as Herman looked through the books he found that he
couldn’t concentrate. At some point he had begun kicking the bookshelf and
knocking the books off of it.
The guard held him back but he continued to try to destroy the shelf.
Another guard came as well. But Paul and Sean had stopped Herman, who
was covered in sweat and breathing heavily.
The guards broke them up. They sent them to opposite ends of the
room. The guard from the hallway held Herman back. He yelled at Paul and
Sean and told them not to move. Paul laughed and this made the guard very
angry. He went over to Paul and pushed his face against the glass. He asked him what was funny about what was going on. He asked if he thought this
was a clown routine. He took Paul out of the room.
“He didn’t fuckin do anything,” said Herman.
“Shut up,” said the guard.
Herman went towards them and tried to push the guard. But the guard
was unaffected by the attempt. He took Paul out of the room.
“He didn’t do anything. He didn’t fuckin do anything!” Herman yelled
and kicked and fought and tried to help his friend.
Another guard came and took Herman to a small room. He was tossed
in there and he kicked and slammed the door until he was exhausted. When
he realized he had stopped he began again. He continued in his blind rage in
spurts for the next day. He was drenched in sweat. He was crying. He slept
in small bursts. He screamed and begged for his life.
The guard woke him up with a boot to the shoulder. Herman was
exhausted. He was to clean himself up and return to the library.
Paul sat where he usually did and laughed as he read. Sean played chess.
It was like what had happened was not new to them.
The guard asked Herman where he left off. He told Herman to get back
to it. Herman was surprised that his outburst and the torture he had gone
through in that room did not affect anything.
He looked along the shelf and saw a book called Moby Dick. It was
written by someone who was also named Herman. Melville.
Herman took the book. It smelled sour and old and the spine of the
book sounded like it was breaking when he opened it. He stood at the shelf
and looked at the pages. It was a long book. Bigger than most of the others.
It looked like it could defeat them all. He stood and read it.
The guard saw what he was doing. At the end of their time in the library
that day Herman showed him the book.
“Yes Herman?”
“Is this book good?”
“Do you like it?”
Herman did not know how to answer exactly. He shrugged.HERMAN’S JAIL 40
The library guard looked unimpressed and said, “you going to read that
book?”
Herman shrugged again.
The guard took it away.
Herman reached for it.
“If I give you this book you have to read it.”
Herman thought for some time. He nodded.
“What?” The guard said. He was not as kind to Herman as he was
before. Herman now saw the consequence of his outburst.
“Are you going to read it or not?”
Herman shrugged.
“If you’re not going to read it then don’t.”
Herman was becoming angry.
“You want to have another temper tantrum?”
“I’ll read it.”
“Good.”
Herman waited there.
“What?”
“Can I sign it out?”
“No. You can come back tomorrow and read while we’re here.”
Herman looked frustrated. Or that he was being cheated in some way.
After Sean packed up his board and Paul signed out the book he was
reading they left and went back to their room.
“Hey Paul?”
“Yes man?”
“Is there a way to get more?”
“Yes.”
“How?”
“That’s a can of worms my friend.”
“Ok.”
Paul explained the process to Herman. When they were at the library
&2345678901234567890123456789&HERMAN’S JAIL 41
Paul would go onto certain websites and win money off of gambling sites.
He would be on MMA fights. He had lost a lot of money but gained a lot.
When he won he would spend the money on the drugs. This all happened
using secret websites. He said that Herman could bet as well. He would
show him. And if he won he would show him how to buy the stuff and have
it sent to the house as something else.
“Like what?” Herman asked.
“Snacks from my mom.”
“Your mom sends it to you?”
“No. I just get them to write her name on the box.”
“Did they ever open it?”
“Every time.”
“And they don’t find it?”
“They find a box of mints and sour candies.”
“That your mom gives you?”
“No sir.”
“Who gave you the mints and sour candies?”
“My dealer. It’s their trademark.”
“What do you do with the candy?”
“I eat it man.” Paul laughed hysterically as usual.
Herman felt pain in what he thought and knew that if people truly knew
what he thought or who he was or what he thought was good they would
abandon him, not that they had ever accepted him in the first place.
Therefor he would never accept them out of fear that they would reject him.
He did not know why he felt this way and was unsure if it was even true.
He saw himself as stupid and inadequate. He saw himself as destined to fail.
The more he understood about the drugs he was taking the more he felt
like it suited how he felt about the world. It felt like he had a sense of
belonging with them and the act of doing them.
He could see that Paul on the other hand, could go either way. He was
simultaneously more disturbed and less disturbed than Herman was. But Paul was an animal. He had a ferocious appetite and indulged completely in
anything that could be indulged in.
Herman was not as much like that. He had yet to start reading the book.
But he had become overwhelmed by the idea of completing it. He did not
think he could. He knew that he would fail. He wanted to fail. Because that
is who he was in the world. Since he had told the guard that he would do it,
he now opened the opportunity to fail. And that was interesting to him. It
had been some time since he remembered what this felt like. It reminded
him of being in the school. It reminded him of where he came from. And
that was a new comfort.
Paul had tried to show Herman how to bet on the fights. Paul showed
him that it wasn’t about picking the best fighter it was about picking the
best odds. But when it came down to it. Herman did not have any money to
bet. He didn’t have a dollar to his name. Paul said that if he was able to get
some money then he could bet but he needed something to start with.
Herman watched Paul bet on the fights. He typed numbers into the
keyboard. Paul slammed on the keys. His hands were big and clumsy and he
laughed while he typed.
Herman lay on his bed staring at the springs. He thought of being in the
schoolyard. He thought of walking by the metal fence and looking for the
money. There was no metal fence where he was now. There was a wooden
fence that he couldn’t see over.
He still walked around it. Looking for money. He remembered those
guys who were standing at the side of the school. Who ate pizza. The
memory made him feel sad in a way. Like that world was gone. It was a
world that was very difficult for him to be in but there was something that
he wanted back from it. He had a different kind of freedom there. He was a
field mouse there. But now he was stuck along the wall. Trying to dart
around any corner but unable to find a way back to the grass.
He did not want to steal money from the guards but he did not know
what other choice there would have been. The overnight guard, was usually sleeping. He assumed he kept his money in his wallet like anyone else.
Herman sat and closed his eyes and imagined the ways that he could
take the wallet from the guard’s pocket. The guard had pockets on the sides
of his legs and normal pockets. Herman felt his own pockets and how his
hand would go in and out of them. He stood and tried to feel the movement
very quietly in order to know exactly how to shape his hand in order for his
leg not to feel his hand.
Herman began to feel stupid as to what he was doing. He began to feel
angry at himself for thinking he could take the guard’s wallet. But still he
thought of it. If he could get the money from him, he could give it to Paul
and then Paul could bet on the fights and get money to buy more drugs.
Then he could have his own and he wouldn’t have to rely on Paul for it.
And then he could have a little bit at a time. Instead of how Paul would use
it all at once and then run out. If he could have a little bit all of the time
then he could manage himself.
He could then read the book in the library that he said he would read.
But without the drugs he would just sit and think about them endlessly.
That is how it had been there. He would sit at the wooden table with the
book and his eyes would become tired and he tried to look at the words but
he could not see them.
He looked at the spine of the book. He looked at his own name on it. He
stared at that and knew that at some point in his life he could read the
book. But instead he looked at the guard’s pants. He looked at any
movement the guard made that would give him some idea of where his
wallet was kept.
Herman positioned himself so that his forehead leaned on his hands. His
hands would cover where he looked. And then everyone would think he was
reading the book but in fact he was watching the guard.
But each day the guard gave no indication as to where he kept his
money and Herman made little progress on his reading.
Herman wanted to tell Paul that he was thinking of taking the guard’s wallet. But he did not know what Paul would say about that. He had a
feeling that Paul would tell him that he wouldn’t accept it if he knew it was
the guard’s. But he also thought that Paul wouldn’t care. The thoughts
moved quickly back and forth.
Herman was in the shower at the same time as some other guys who
were older than him. Without any indication as to why one of them walked
up to Herman threw him onto the ground by his head. He didn’t get up to
fight back. It was as if the lights went out in his mind.
He knew that he thought of many things but he could not grasp what
any of them were. When his vision and thoughts began to become more
clear he cried. He lay on the grout and the water sprayed onto his back and
shoulder harshly. The temperature was very hot and made his skin red.
There were times that Herman was able to read the book. He wanted to
read fast but found that if he did he no longer understood what was
happening.
The more Herman thought about it the more he realized he had no idea
where he was. He didn’t know where the ocean was. He didn’t know how to
get to the lake and if it rained he didn’t even know where he would find the
nearest puddle.
He looked up from his book. The guard noticed the change in him. The
guard looked at him.
“What?” The guard asked.
Herman shrugged.
“What was that?”
“Nothing.”
“Come here. Bring the book.”
Herman did so.
“What part were you reading?”
Herman showed him.
“Read it aloud.”
Herman did so.
“That mean something to you?” The guard asked.
Herman shrugged.
“Come on.”
“He wants to go to the sea because he doesn’t want to deal with anyone.”
The guard nodded.
Herman saw then, as he looked at the ground, where the guard’s wallet
was kept. It was in his front right pocket.
“And what does that mean to you?” The guard asked.
“I dunno.”
The guard looked at him. He wasn’t going to push Herman any farther.
Herman lay in his bed. He no longer noticed the springs. He thought of
how he could reach into the guard’s pocket and take the wallet. He would
have to use his left hand. He would have to pull out the wallet in one quick
movement.
He practiced the movement with a piece of crumpled newspaper. He
practiced pulling it up again and again. And he imagined that when the time
came, he would take the wallet.
He felt like he didn’t have a choice. He didn’t know how else to get the
money and if there was one guard that would understand why he did it, and
that wouldn’t kill him, it was the library guard.
“Hey man,” Herman said to Paul.
“Yo,” said Paul.
“I think I’ll have some money soon.”
“Nice.”
“And then can you bet it for me?”
“For sure man.”
Herman went back to his bed. He lay down and looked at the springs.
“Hey man,” Paul said to him.
“What?”
“Those guys that kicked your ass. Which ones were they?”
Herman shrugged.
“I was thinking about that,” Paul said.
“About what?” 
“That they kicked your ass.”
“Yah.”
“And I got news for them.”
“What?”
“Us three. We got to stick together.”
Sean was looking over at them.
“I dunno about you guys, but you guys are my friends. And that makes
me damn mad about them kicking one of our asses. You know what I
mean?”
Herman and Sean weren’t sure what to say.
“So I’m gonna say we should go after those mother fuckers!” Paul said.
Sean smirked and Herman did too.
“What do you say? You guys in?” Paul asked.
Sean looked at Herman and said, “yeah, I’m in.”
“Alright.”
“Me too,” said Herman.
Paul got up and went to Sean and fist bumped his elbow. And then he
went to Herman and gave him a fist bump.
“So what do you want to do about it?” Sean asked.
“I dunno!” Paul laughed.
Herman closed his eyes and tried to imagine something good. But all he
thought of was fighting them and kicking their asses with his bare hands.
“One time,” Paul said, “me and this guy, we got two pounds of fish and
put it up into the air vent. Hid it up in this guy’s office. Took him two damn
weeks to figure it out. That was the worst fuckin smell I ever smelled in my
life man.” Paul laughed hysterically.
“We don’t got any fish,” said Sean.
“Yeah, we got to get some fish for that.”
They all thought about their ideas. And then Sean laughed. It was the
first time they’d really seen him do it.
“You got something?” Paul said.
“Maybe,” Sean said. 
“What is it?”
“I gotta show you guys. You gotta see it to believe me.”
“Alright.”
“Tomorrow. I’ll show you tomorrow.”
“Alright.”
Herman felt some sense of brotherhood. There was still a side of him
that felt that felt unsafe in it. That something would happen and they would
abandon him or reject him. But despite himself he seemed willing to give in
to it.
He looked at Sean, who stared at his chess board. The scar that
separated his face in two. He watched as he pushed the chess piece forward
with his elbow. He held it there for a minute before letting go. And then he
looked at Herman. And saw that Herman was watching him play.
And for the first time Sean said, “you know how to play?”
“Kind of,” said Herman.
Herman went over and watched him play. He had gotten a good sense of
how the game worked from watching him play. And each time Sean would
play a move he would go to the opposite chair. Herman would go to the
side of the table with him.
Herman appreciated this way of playing. He liked being on the same side
as Sean and being against him at the same time. It felt peaceful in this
instance.
And while he did this. He saw that Paul had opened the ziplock bag that
he kept his drugs in and was trying to get any last bit he could off of it. He
could see that Paul was not paying attention to anything but that. He could
see that Paul was immersed inside of the plastic and the drugs. He could see
that Paul was muttering to himself about something. This broke Herman’s
concentration and Sean felt that change.
For a moment it felt like the connection that Herman felt between
himself and Sean and Paul brought him some kind of joy that could become bigger than they cement room they were in. But that bag that Paul worked
on was still there. It had a hold on Paul and it had a hold on Herman.
Herman could no longer follow what was going on in the chess game.
He felt alone again. It came over him at once. He felt foolish for thinking
that there was a way out of it.
Herman went back to his bed. He lay there and stared at the springs. He
moved his fingers and imagined taking the guard’s wallet.
It was tomorrow and Sean did not tell them what his plan was. Paul’s
spirit seemed to have died. His laugh was audible but it lacked his soul. In
its weakness it drained the energy from the room. His laugh was not
disingenuous but it emit a sadness in its inability to live up to what it was.
It sounded ghostly.
In the library Herman sat at the table he ordinarily did and he read for
some time.
He looked at the guard and knew where his wallet was. But the guard
was not distracted for a moment. Herman went to the guard’s table.
“I gotta use the restroom.”
“Alright.”
And when the guard stood up Herman took his wallet. He dropped it
down the front of his shirt. It was caught where his shirt tucked into his
pants.
Herman’s heart beat out of his chest. He sweat. The library guard called
for an assistant.
The assistant came and walked Herman down the hallway and to the
restroom. Herman looked at himself in the mirror.
He was pale and scared. He put water onto his face.
And then the boys arrived. The ones that beat him up in the shower. The
wallet was in his shirt.
In that moment Herman wished that he had spoken to Sean and asked
him what the plan was. He had wished Paul was there. He wished that he
was not alone but he was. If they fought him again he would lose the wallet.
And he would be busted. Severely. He would be sent away from this place
and he would not see Sean or Paul again.
If ever a time to fight, this was it.
And he wasn’t going to wait for them to make the first move.
He went up to the biggest guy and grabbed the back of his neck and
forced his knuckles into his throat. He pushed that guy down. He went after
the next guy, head butting him and grabbing his hair and scratching him
across the face and over his eyes. He kicked that guy in the chin and sent
him down. The third guy stumbled backward and Herman punched him in
the ribs repeatedly and then ran out of the room.
The hallway guard saw that he was out of breath but he did not ask him
anything. He was so apathetic to Herman that he didn’t even ask him what
happened.
He walked Herman back to the library.
The library guard asked him what happened. And Herman said, “some
guys were there.”
“The fuckin guys?” Paul got up. He was enraged.
Sean also got up.
“It’s okay,” Herman said.
“Fuck that shit!” Said Paul.
“It’s okay man,” Herman said.
“I’ll kill those mother fuckers!”
The library guard watched the boys play this out and did not intervene.
“They didn’t do anything,” said Herman. “It’s fine.”
“Then why’s there blood on your face?”
Herman hadn’t realized this. He touched his face. “It isn’t mine.”
Paul and Sean stopped.
Paul smiled and said, “man.”
Paul laughed and then asked “did you kick their ass man?”
For a moment Herman welled up. His emotion was mixed in that he felt
victorious in winning the fight, but the overbearing sadness that he did it alone. He could see the support he had from his friend in their excitement
that he won and their concern for him but he also knew that he betray the
library guard, who did care for him and the others as well.
But he did not cry. Paul pat him on the back and said, “you’re the man
little buddy.”
And Sean nodded at him.
And the library guard, seeing how the boys were, did not intervene.
Herman looked through the wallet over and over again. There were
three bank cards. One ID. A health card. A library card. A card for coffee. A photo of a child. And one twenty dollar bill.
He kept the twenty dollar bill crumpled in his hand. It was the most
money he’d ever held. And he had no idea what it would do for him. He had
no idea what it could get.
He put the wallet under the drain in the showers.
He was scared to go back in there. He didn’t know what would happen
if he saw those guys again. He might have to fight them again.
Herman gave Paul the twenty dollars. He wanted to tell him where he
got it but he didn’t. He didn’t want anyone to know. Paul said alright. He
asked him who he wanted to bet on. He didn’t know either. He told Paul to
bet it how he would bet it.
“Alright man,” Paul said.
A notice came out that property had been stolen. They didn’t say what it
was but Herman knew it was the library guard’s wallet.
Herman said quietly, “hey Paul?”
“Yes bro?”
“Do you still got that money?”
“Gone with the wind.”
“Ok.”
Paul looked at him. Herman knew that Paul knew what Herman had
done. Perhaps he didn’t know exactly who he stole it from, but he knew
that Herman was guilty of taking it.
“Bro, come here.” &2345678901234567890123456789&HERMAN’S JAIL 51
Herman stood there.
“I won’t say shit. To anyone. They could send a dog after my balls. But I
won’t say nothing. You have my word bro.”
Paul reached his fist out. Herman pounded it and nodded.
The guards tore the room apart.
When they knocked over Sean’s chess board Paul got angry and went
towards them. Herman went in front of Paul to fight with him. He was
ready to take on the guards. But Sean stopped him and told Paul it was
alright. He remembered where all the pieces were.
They listened to Sean.
The guards left and found nothing.
They sat in the mess for some time. Before cleaning up their things.
The next time they went to the library Herman sat at the table and
looked at the words in the book but read nothing.
It was difficult for him to look or speak to the library guard. This made
the guard suspicious that Herman had taken his wallet. It was a gut feeling.
The library guard was not sure what to do about it. He was not going to
make Herman’s life any worse. But he didn’t think that Herman getting
away with stealing was going to help him in the future. That said he didn’t
want to lose Herman’s trust. Not that Herman deserved his trust after
stealing his wallet but Herman was someone who the library guard wanted
to help. He saw that Herman had potential to grow and to live a decent life
if he made some of the right decisions.
Paul said to Herman, “some bad news bro.”
“What?”
“Didn’t do too well on the fight.”
Herman’s gut sank into the ground.
“Did we win?”
“No.”
Herman was upset. It seemed as though getting the drugs was not as
important to him at this point than the shame he felt over stealing the money for nothing.
“There’s always next time,” said Paul. “Don’t worry about it.”
Herman felt deeply upset and ashamed of himself. He couldn’t steal
another wallet again. Then they would know it was him. Or they would
know that it was someone.
“Hey, Paul?”
“Yes bro?”
“I don’t really have any money any more.”
“Understood bro. Understood.”
“Do you know where I could get some from?”
When Paul pondered he put his hands behind his back and paced in
circles.
He did that for some time. And then he laughed.
“You know where I end up making all my cash?”
Herman shrugged.
“Man, you know.”
“Off the fights?”
“Uh huh.”
Paul looked at him. Waiting for him to catch on. But Herman had no
idea what he was saying.
“Man. Off the fights,” Paul said.
Herman didn’t get it. And he wasn’t going to.
“Off the prize fighters my bro!” Said Paul, “the prize fighters.” Paul put
his hands on Herman’s shoulders, “and you bro, are the best fighter in this
fuckin place!”
“You want me to fight?”
“I’ll train you bro. I seen every game. I’ll train you. And we’ll set up a
match. Here. We’ll find a challenger. Winner takes all bro.”
Herman shrugged.
“Man. I believe in you bro. What do you say?”
“You think I could win?”
“Think? I know you could win. You took on all those mother fuckers!”

Herman felt proud and happy to hear that.
Paul was getting excited and Sean had their attention.
“Yo, Sean, you in on this?”
“I don’t know anything about fighting,” Sean said.
“Are you fucking kidding man?”
“No.”
“Alright touché bro, you might not know anything about fighting but
you know what you know about?”
“What?”
“War! You go to teach us the strategy. The mind set.”
Sean smiled, “huh, maybe.”
“Yes bro!” Said Paul. “You’re gonna be the reigning champ bro. You’re
going to be the winner!” Everyone was getting very excited.
Until Paul said, “You’re a killer bro!”
And this made Herman very sad and angry to hear. Paul and Sean saw
Herman’s reaction. And they saw that perhaps it was true. They saw then,
that Herman was a killer. There would be no changing that.
“I’m in if you are,” said Sean.
“I’m in,” said Paul, “what do you say buddy?”
Herman looked at both of them. He saw that they still looked at him the
same. Despite what he’d done in the past. And then Herman said, “Yeah. I’ll
do it.”
He started to do push ups and sit ups on the ground. Paul would egg
him on. Paul made him work harder than he ever had. He made him do
push ups until his chin hit the floor.
Herman was scrawny and small compared to most kids his age. He was
also younger than Paul and Sean and the others.
Paul could see that he was fast and agile. Paul often let Herman use him
as a punching bag. It seemed that Paul was not hurt easily, he did carry a lot
of weight and Herman didn’t hit him with the rage that he had.
Every now and again Paul would be hurt by Herman but he laughed

when he was hit and seemed to have an inability to give up.
Paul told Herman that he would set up the fight and deal with the
timing. Herman didn’t ask any questions about it but when he tried to sleep
at night he wondered where the fight would be, who he would be fighting
and how long the fight would go until. But he didn’t ask Paul. In a way he
didn’t want to know.
Most days Paul pushed Herman to the point of exhaustion. It took him
some time before he could really see the extent of Herman’s energy. Paul
would urge him to keep going and to exhaust himself farther but he could
see that Herman’s body was not as strong as his will. Despite his effort.
Herman had spent some time not thinking about the fight with Vova,
when he got thrown into the water fountain. When that girl asked him if he
wanted help and when he saw the security guard in the basement. But the
more Paul worked to find where his limit was the more the memories began
to resurface.
It seemed that when Herman would think of that fight he did not fight
harder he retreated. Paul did not know what the memory was but he could
see that limit.
That was when Paul understood that perhaps he could not get through
to Herman with force. They went to Sean. Who as usual was deep inside of
a chess problem and did not want to speak.
“Man,” said Paul.
Sean did not answer or look up.
Herman’s face was flush and he was trying to catch his breath.
Paul and Herman stood patiently at the table for Sean to finish his move.
He made the move. Herman and Paul still waited patiently.
Sean sat with Herman for a long time and neither of them spoke. Sean
knew that Herman had a strong ability to be quiet. But Herman also did not
know the game that they were playing. They sat there. For almost three
hours.
And then Sean said, “you have to be forced to act.”
Herman looked at him and did not understand what he meant.HERMAN’S JAIL 55
“You cannot have a choice,” Sean said, “you have to be put into a
position where you have no choice.”
Herman still sat there. But his heart beat faster hearing this.
“When you fought them last, if you let them move you would die.”
Herman nodded.
“So you did what you had to do,” Sean said. “When you are training, if
you don’t hit as hard, you know that it’s okay. Because your coach has given
you his loyalty and you believe him.”
Herman nodded.
“And when you go to the fight what happens if you lose?”
Herman shrugged. Sean sat and waited for his response. Herman could
see that he would sit and wait. Sean would not take a shrug as an answer.
“Then we don’t get any money,” said Herman.
Sean nodded.
“And if you get no money?”
“Then we can’t bet on the fight.”
“And if you can’t be on the fight?”
“We don’t get more money.”
“And?”
“Then we can’t buy the drugs.”
“And if you can’t buy the drugs?”
Herman became angry. He felt like he was pushed against a wall. He
wanted to hit the table or scream. But he did not want to disturb the chess
game.
Sean saw that.
Sean reset the board to its starting positions. Sean played white. He
made his first move. He knew how many times Herman had watched him
play. But Herman did not make a move. Herman stared at the board. He
stared around the room. He tapped his foot. He sweat. Until he got so angry
that screamed and knocked over the chess table.
Sean said nothing. He didn’t even flinch.
Herman went back to his mattress. He stared at the springs. And then he

punched them repeatedly until his knuckles opened.
Sean sat at the table. The pieces remained on the ground.
Paul went and put the pieces back on the table for Sean. They whispered
some words to one another but Herman couldn’t hear and didn’t want to
hear.
Herman turned his back to them and instead of looking at the springs he
looked at the wall. The texture in the concrete.
When they ate their next meal nobody said a word. Paul didn’t laugh at
anything. It seemed like they all orbit the same issue. They were moths
hitting the lightbulb. They were moths circling the flame.
And then Herman said to Paul, “when is it?”
Paul cleared his voice. It was the first time that he seemed unsure of
himself when he spoke and his voice almost quivered in its own way.
Paul said, “Sunday.”
There was a fear in his voice. Herman was not scared. But it seemed to
worry Sean in a way they hadn’t seen before either.
After some time Sean said, “now you have to make a move.”
Herman looked at him. The anger was returning.
“You going to play me or are you going to flip the board again?”
Herman was getting more angry.
“You can flip the board on Sunday too.”
“He’s not going to flip the fuckin board,” said Paul.
“If he can he will,” said Sean.
They both looked at Herman.
“You can find it in yourself, Herman, the part of you that doesn’t have a
choice,” said Sean.
Now they understood what he was saying. And Sean saw that they
understood. And he smiled.
Herman was amazed by Sean’s ability to play chess. His ability to
understand the puzzle and to put him in to such impossible situations felt
like it so far transcended his ability.
And he saw Sean’s point. That he had to either make a move or lose the game. Regardless of his lack of experience he could either win or lose and
that would be that. There was almost zero chance of him making a move
that would stand a chance against Sean but he was forced to try.
If he was not put in a position in which he was forced to move, then
would he be able to function at the peak of his ability.
But he thought of the lunch room guard. He thought of how he looked
as he lay on the floor in a pool of blood. He had been forced to act then, to
survive, and he won the match.
Herman did not know what the answer was.
Chess was fair. It was ruthless but it seemed that the consequence per
action was plain as day and totally objective. To win was to kill.
But to the lunch room guard in basement corridor.
Should he have killed Herman? Or done a better job of apprehending
him?
Sean moved his bishop across the board and took Herman’s queen off
the board.
It was frustrating for Herman. But he could see now, why the queen
should not have been standing there in the first place.
Herman had not come close to beating Sean at chess.
Paul had organized a fight in two days. It would be this coming Sunday.
It was going to be at nine in the morning.
Herman knew at that point there was nothing else he could do to train
for it. It was difficult for him to keep his thoughts off of the lunch room
guard. It seemed that the rest of the world ceased to exist and he thought
about that man over and over again.
Herman knew that if he had not attacked he would have been captured
and he did not know what the repercussion would have been. Herman did
what he had to do to survive and protect himself.
Herman lay on his mattress and stared at the springs. In a way he felt
like this could be the last time he lay on this foam rectangle. He
remembered how cold and alone he felt when he first lay on the mattress. But now, staring up at the springs, in the quiet, among Paul and Sean, that
felt like all he had. And he did not want to lose that. It had become his
home.
He did not want to die like the lunch room guard did. If there was one
thing to fight for, it was to get to be with his friends. As bored and as banal
as their existence had become, it was the best one that he knew.
Before the fight Paul kept his hands on Herman’s shoulders.
“You got this bro. You got this,” said Paul. Herman became so nervous
that he felt like he was going to throw up. And then it was time to fight.
It was a guy he’d never seen before. He was very tall. His teeth were
spiky and his eyes were very small, he looked like a bull terrier. He bounced
up and down. He was over twice Herman’s size.
Herman took off his shirt and tossed it on the ground.
“I got your back bro,” said Paul.
The referee stood in the middle of them. And on three they screamed,
“fight!”
Herman knew in that moment that there was no beating this guy. It was
like facing Sean at chess. There was no way he was going to win, but he
didn’t want to die.
The bull terrier bounced up and down. Watching Herman. And then
Herman said fuck it. He hit him with an uppercut to the jaw.
The bull terrier was knocked down. Herman couldn’t believe it. Maybe
he did have a chance.
But then. The bull terrier got up. And he grinned. Herman went to
smoke him again but this time the bull terrier whacked his hand out of the
way and jabbed Herman in the chest.
It knocked the air out of Herman. Herman pushed forward and hit the
guy with all he had. He beat his stomach with both fists over and over again.
He pounded him with all that he had. But the bull terrier’s fist came and
clocked Herman across the forehead. It sent him right down to the gravel.
Everyone cheered and shouted.
Herman got up. He felt that his face was wet. There was blood on his face where he hit the ground. His vision was blurry. He saw Sean was there
watching. And that gave him a burst of power. He went back at the bull
terrier and pounded his head over and over again.
But it wasn’t enough. The bull terrier hit him again, and again until
Herman hit the ground.
For a moment he felt like he was under the water fountain again. He felt
like he’d been sent back.
Herman tried to get up. But he was dizzy.
The bull terrier said to him, “don’t get up, just stay down, stay down.”
Herman screamed and went after him again. And this time the bull
terrier just held Herman back. Even he knew it wasn’t a fair fight.
But Herman escaped and he bit onto the bull terrier’s arm and torn into
his flesh.
The bull terrier screamed, “mother fucker!” And wrapped his elbow
around Herman’s neck. “Tap out you little fuck, tap out you runt fuckin
cunt bastard. Tap out!”
Herman kept trying to wiggle out of his grasp. It was clear that there
was no way Herman was going to let go.
Paul ripped through the crowd and tried to pull Herman off. Some of
the other guys tried to hold Paul back but he knocked them down also. Sean
tried to get Herman out of the bull terrier’s grip but couldn’t.
And then one of the guard’s came out and said, “get the fuck back in.
Get the fuck back in!” An alarm started blaring and everyone scattered.
Herman hit the concrete and Sean tried to pick him up. He grabbed his
shirt. Paul was still trying to kick some guy’s ass.
More guards rushed out. Everyone tried to split but no one got far.
Herman tried to get up and run but his head was spun into the ether.
Herman was alone for some time. His face was swollen and he kept his
eyes closed as much as he could. He had road rash on his back and elbow.
His knuckles were swollen and cut.
He was surrounded by concrete and there was no foam mattress and there were no springs above him.
He thought of the fight with the bull terrier. It wasn’t as bad as he
thought. He came out okay.
They gave him a plate of food. Some spiral noodles with salt on them.
He lay on the ground for a few days. Until they sent him back to the
room with Paul and Sean.
Paul was very happy to see Herman. He told him he put up a great fight.
He said that he was a champ.
Sean didn’t say anything. He didn’t break his concentration from his
chess game. Herman sensed that he was angry at him.
Paul got Herman to go over to his bed. It was shocking to Herman, what
a damn mess Paul always made of his stuff. Herman wasn’t particularly
clean or tidy but he at least had some order for his things. It wasn’t like
Sean who had literally nothing but a single pair of clothes and a chess set.
But Paul always lived in a mess. He didn’t seem to care. And the smell
coming off him was remarkable. The guy needed a shower badly. But there
was something about his laugh, that was so joyful, that made it so that it
was hard to be angry at him about anything.
Paul showed Herman a stack of money. “And that’s not even all of it,”
said Paul.
Paul offered him the money. Herman held it for a moment. In that
moment he thought of the noodles. He thought of when he would walk
around the gate outside of the schoolyard looking for something. And he
wondered if this was it. The feeling overwhelmed him. He felt excited and
sad.
Herman held the money and said, “we won?”
Paul laughed very hard at that. He said, “no man.”
Herman looked confused.
“Then how did we get all this money?”
“Betting against the favourite.”
“What’s that?”
“Well buddy. You gotta know something.”
“What?”
“Most everyone who bet, they bet on you to win. After what you did to
those guys in the bathroom.”
Herman nodded. It was strange for him to feel like people were paying
attention to him and that he was winning anything at all.
“And my strategy, I always lay the favourite. That means I bet against
what everyone else is doing. It doesn’t mean that you always win. But when
you do. You win a hell of a lot more.”
Herman looked at all of the money. He understood now that they won
the money because he lost the fight.
Paul laughed in his maniacal way. He laughed at the sheer irony of it all.
Herman was sad at first. But then Paul said, “we got the money bro! Right?
That’s what you wanted!”
Paul said, “I’ll cash this in and come back with a giant bag. So get ready.”
Herman felt a strong sense of sickness. He felt nauseous at the thought of it.
Now that he had been without the drugs for some time his desire was not
as immediate. But he wasn’t ready to give up the thought of it. And he could
see how excited Paul was.
During lunch Herman was glad to eat something more than noodles. He
supposed for a moment that it was nice to be glad for something but he
realized that was the trick they were trying to play on him. The more
grateful he was to what they gave him the more they could control him to
do what he wanted. And that was a slippery slope.
He became very angry. He took his plate and was about to frisbee it at
the garbage but then stopped. He stood on the bench with his plate in his
hand.
Sean and Paul looked up at him. Herman stopped. He stood there. The
guards came towards him. He froze.
“Hey Herman,” Sean said.
Herman stood there. Frozen in place.
The guards yelled at him to sit down. As they got closer Sean stood up and got him to sit down. Herman did.
The guards stopped as it seemed like the situation was under control.
Sean wacked him upside the back of the head and said, “listen bonehead,
the last thing you need is to give these guys a single reason to fuck with
you.”
Herman slumped down.
“What?” Sean said.
Herman didn’t answer.
“What man? What’s the fuckin problem?”
“Nothing,” said Herman.
“No. Speak up.”
“Nothing,” said Herman. He was getting very angry.
“You want to sit around and feel sorry for yourself? And then what? I
got to live with that shit man. You want to man the fuck up and start
dealing with yourself or you want to get the fuck out of here.”
Herman looked at him. His demeanour changed.
“What?” Sean asked him.
“What do you mean get the fuck out of here?” Said Herman.
“That’s what I mean,” said Sean.
Paul was looking at him too.
“How’d we do that?” Herman asked.
Sean could see the pressure was on him. He’d open some kind of can of
worms.
“Yah. How’d we do that?” Paul asked him.
They waited for him to say something.
“I’ll tell you guys tomorrow.”
“You said that last time, but you never told us,” said Herman.
“You got a way out?” Asked Paul.
“I’m working on a plan.”
“What is it?”
“Yah man, what is it?”
“I’ll tell you when it’s done.” 
“No man,” Paul said, “tell us.”
“There’s a pathway we can take, where no one is, during the changing of
the guards. It’s out the back exit. On Saturday at sunrise.”
“How do you know?” Paul asked.
“That’s my business.”
Paul looked at him very seriously for some time.
And then he burst out laughing. And then Sean smiled. And Herman did
too.
They were in the room and Paul laughed and had an idea, “hey man,” he
said.
Herman was watching Sean play chess.
“You want to go another round?”
Herman looked at him.
“Listen man. You know Edwin?”
Herman clearly didn’t know.
“The hot dog kid,” said Paul.
“Oh. Yah,” Herman said.
“He wants to set up a fight.”
Sean and Paul looked at Herman.
Herman shrugged.
“Up to you bro,” said Paul.
“Ok,” said Herman.
“Yea?” Said Paul.
Herman nodded and said, “I could take that guy.”
“Alright, bro. Alright. But you know what man?”
“What?”
“I think you could crush that guy.”
Herman nodded.
Sean made a move on the chess board. He got up and went to the other
side of the board. Herman looked at the move for a long time. It was like he
forgot where he was for some time.
“What about the shit you ordered Paul?” Said Sean. He was clearly angry at them.
“It’s on the way,” said Paul.
“And you’re gonna use these fights to bankroll it?”
“Sure thing man, that’s what we’re doing,” Paul said.
Paul could see what Sean thought and he said, “you saying I’m using the
kid to make money and get him hooked on drugs like that?”
“Did I say that?”
“You’re thinking it.”
“You’re the one who just said it.”
“Man. Each person makes their own choices. If Herman didn’t want to
fight he doesn’t have to. If he doesn’t want to take drugs he doesn’t have to.”
“People get hooked on that shit, they don’t chose man.”
“They don’t have a choice?”
“Not always.”
“Then it’s just fate is it?” Paul asked.
“Some people don’t get to chose.”
“Then what do they do?”
“Fuck off man.”
“Then what do they do?” Paul was getting angrier. He walked closer to
Sean. “If they don’t have a choice, then they have no power. And then
they’re fucked. And then we’re all fucked. I’m saying we all got a choice in
how we want things to go.”
“You chose to end up stuck in this room then?”
“Fuck no.”
“So?”
“You chose to get the fuck out here?”
“Maybe,” said Sean.
“Alright then.”
Herman looked between the two of them. He had a hard time
understanding what they were talking about. But he could see they were
more angry at one another and it was happening more often.
When the next shipment of drugs came Herman took them with Paul.

For the rest of the evening Herman stood in the middle of the room and
thought of nothing.
Paul sat on the edge of his bed and his head kept falling forwards. He
laughed to himself.
Sean ignored them both. He continued to focus on his game.
Herman and Paul planned to train for the fight that evening but they
didn’t get far. Herman tried to do his usual exercises but he couldn’t push
himself very far. Paul fell asleep during the training.
Herman knew that Sean didn’t think highly of them but he didn’t want
to let Paul down by not taking the drugs and now that he was taking them
again, he had come to think about them often, they had a way of controlling
his thoughts when he wasn’t on them. His thoughts were vague but he just
thought of the drugs all of the time. He thought of when he would do them,
how much he would do, and how long they would last.
Paul gave Herman a small amount from the twenty dollars that he had
unknowingly bet against himself. Herman ran out of the supply quite fast
but Paul was always willing to share what he had with Herman.
Herman sat on the ground and he closed his eyes. He thought of a
corner store that he used to go to on the weekend. He thought of the rows
of candies and the comic books and magazines. He thought of the slurpee
machine. And for the first time in what seemed like a long while he felt like
he wanted to be back there.
He thought of walking along the fence at the school and he imagined
what it would be like to be on the other side, crossing the road to where the
cars were.
He began to feel very sad, for himself, that was unable to do that. He
remembered when he went into the parking lot and hid inside of that car
and he wished that he went even farther into the road. He wished he went
into the convenience store and read the comic books on the stand. The
sadness was no overwhelming, it felt like a cold pale of water inside of him.
He sat on the concrete and felt it and imagined the road outside. He thought of the auto shop and what it would be like to go to one and see how the work there happened.
He looked at Sean and Paul. And he felt distant from them. Before he
was taking the drugs again it felt like they were together, but now somehow,
it was like they were separate again.
He wondered what they would do, if he went to the auto shop. He
wondered if they would also want to go to the convenience store.
Herman sat in the library and Paul did not laugh. Herman sat and
looked at the book. He had begun to understand it more. He had saw that
this man he read about did not know where to go in his life except in the
ocean. And that is how Herman began to feel but he did not know where to
place his thoughts.
He looked at the library guard. He wondered if he had thought that he
had lost his wallet or if he knew someone took it. Perhaps he thought that
he dropped it in the street on the way to his car. Herman could see in the
way that they spoke, that he did not suspect that he had taken it. This
brought relief to Herman but it felt a certain way. It felt like there was a
pain in his neck. It touched him and did not burn but was persistent and
the nerve went all the way to the other end of his back. It was the lie that
he told.
If no one knew that he was holding that lie, it would stay, but at least he
would not have to answer to it.
There was a version of him that would not have cared about this. But he
had not known at that point what it felt like to be a liar. The feeling stayed
with him. His conscious was guilty.
He did not want to tell the library guard. And instead he did not pay
attention to the library guard. He made it seem like the library guard was
not in his thoughts. He would show up and take the book and read it, or
not, and put it back and not acknowledge the library guard.
There were times that he thought of telling Sean or Paul or both of them
what he had done. He felt that he could tell Paul and he wouldn’t think much of it. But if he told Sean, he would be told that he must do something.
He felt that Paul would not encourage him to do anything he did not want
to do or judge him accordingly. But then nothing would change. Sean,
meanwhile, would look at him differently. And Sean would tell him that he
would have to own up to it. He would tell him that the only way that the
pain would go away would be if he owned up to it.
Herman sat with the thought of the two directions. And then he
wondered if there was another option. But he could not think of any. He
would either say what he did or he wouldn’t.
He thought that he would tell Sean and Paul at the same time. But he
never did. Instead he decided he would tell the library guard himself. But
that made no sense to him either. Because if he did that then he would have
to tell him why he stole the wallet. He stole it to get money to give to Paul
to bet on the fight to get the drugs. And then they lost the money and so
Herman fought himself and lost. And by losing, he won, because Paul bet
against the popular vote. Paul bet against him to win.
And that was the chaos and the beauty of Paul. That was at the bottom
of his laugh. And Herman understood that this space is where Paul liked to
be. Herman understood that and he respected it. He knew that it wasn’t an
easy place to live but it was home to Paul and he could not argue that.
And for that reason he would hold the weight of the choice he made.
Not for himself, but for Paul. If he were to tell everyone what he had done
he would have felt relief and that would be easy for him but it would cause
repercussion to his friend and he did not want to do that.
He lay in his bed and he looked at the springs again.
He looked at his knuckle and the places where the skin had torn. It had
not healed yet but it would have to soon because the next fight was coming
up. He punched the spring and let the skin break open again. Because he
didn’t care if it had healed or not. He was going to win this fight. Because
he wanted to. Not for the drugs, not for survival or fear, not for Sean or
Paul or for the library guard. He wanted to win for the sake of winning. He wanted to win for the sake of not being fucked with.
Herman threw his shirt onto the pavement. He felt his fists and he
squeezed them in and out. He hopped up and bounced along the pavement
in his sneakers. Paul stood at his side. The crowd was bigger than last time.
He could see the fear in his opponent’s face. He could see it because he
knew that fear and he had been his opponent before. Like a fearless pawn
he moved to the centre of board and swung at him. The crowd lit up.
His opponent came after him, swinging fast and hard into his ribs. He
could see where his strength’s were. Herman swung down onto his skull
and over and over again. Knocking him down. Herman lift the opponent
back up by his hair and swung again. His opponent was knocked down
again. Herman went after him but the crowd pulled him back. Herman tried
to go after his opponent again but the crowd would not let him. His
opponent was already knocked out. He lay on the ground, he was out cold.
Herman had won the match.
Paul held Herman’s fist in the air and yelled, “we have a winner! We
have a fuckin winner!”
The guards didn’t see the fight this time. Paul collected the money from
the others. Herman was surprised to see that.
Paul laughed and told Herman that after last time they all bet against
him and that meant that Paul bet for him. They won the fight and they won
the money.
There was something about winning the fight that gave Herman a sense
of fulfilment. He didn’t know who that guy was or anything about him and
he didn’t really care. He just felt like he’d found a place in it all. He was able
to do something and have it work and for other people to think that he was
good at it.
He knew what it felt to lose a fight and it was very different. This was
much better for him.
He found that he was no longer interested in staring up at the springs.
He rolled off of the bed and he did push ups on the ground. He stared at the dust on the concrete. He did as many push ups until his arms had become exhausted.
Sean did not go to the fight and he didn’t ask about it. He was more
focused on his chess game than ever before. Herman noticed that and
instead of looking at the bedsprings he went over to Sean. Sean did not look
up at him.
He could see that Herman now stood like a beast. He could feel that his
sense of self had been inflated to a large extent.
Herman thought that power was the thing that he was missing. And
when Paul gave him the rest of the drugs that he had he went right back
down to the ground. And the feeling tried to survive but it died.
When Herman woke up the next day he felt extremely upset and did not
want to get out of bed. He was confused as to why he was feeling so strong
and now how he had become so weak.
“Herman get up man, let’s go,” Sean said.
Herman didn’t answer him.
“Man, get up, I don’t want any shit, if you’re late we’re all late,” Sean
said.
“Herman buddy, you good?” Asked Paul.
Herman didn’t answer.
“Herman, you gonna stay back today?” Paul asked.
“If he stays back we all get in shit.”
“Then we do,” said Paul.
“What so he can waste away in here with all the shit you’ve been giving
him?”
“What shit?”
“The fucking drugs.”
“Hey man,” said Paul.
“What?”
“If he doesn’t want to come he doesn’t have to come.”
“Fuck that, Herman, get up,” Sean said.
Sean went to nudge Herman. 
“Let him be man.”
“Fuck that and you know the fuck what?” Sean said.
“What?” Said Paul.
“I don’t want any more fuckin drugs in this room. I’m done with you
guys shitting yourself and acting like fuckin pieces of shit.”
Paul laughed and Sean pushed him.
“I’m not fucking kidding man,” Sean said again.
He pushed Paul harder. He could see that Paul was not going to hit him
back and that only made him push him harder. He could not punch Paul or
grab him to throw him onto the ground with his elbows. But he swung at
him as hard as he could and eventually it hurt Paul. Paul covered his head as
Sean swung at him over and over again.
Until Herman got up and threw Sean onto the ground.
“Stop it, stop,” Herman said.
Paul got up and he tried to help Sean up.
Sean said, “fuck off,” to him.
Paul said, “you want us to quit?”
Sean didn’t answer.
“Man, you want us to quit?”
He could see that Sean had some tears in his eyes. He was not sad he
was overwhelmed by everything. He had pushed past his limits and he said,
“yes.”
“Then show us the way out,” Paul said.
Sean looked at him. He got up. Herman got out of his bed and put his
shirt on.
Sean nodded.
They walked down the hall, towards the breakfast room. And Sean said,
“that corridor there, remember it. That’s the first check point,” Herman
nodded and so did Paul.
They sat with their breakfast. They had oatmeal and canned carrots.
The first thing they would need to do is find a way to break through the door and get to the corridor. The doors were locked when they were meant to be sleeping and the doors were dead bolted shut.
None of them had any idea how to make that work. But Sean told them
to keep thinking about it and they would find a way.
Once they got to the first checkpoint, the corridor, they would have to climb up into the air vent. And they had to do it fast. But he knew that it was abandoned for fifteen minutes every Saturday.
Herman asked him how he knew that. Sean said that he watched the
guard through the window in the door. There was one certain angle. It was
apparent that Sean never slept. Herman couldn’t believe that he was always
up like that. He didn’t understand how. Sean said that he could then see that
same guard from the window in the room going to his car. He said that he
knew the other guard was in the control room watching the video cameras,
which for one thing he knew that he wasn’t watching them that closely, and
for another thing the reason they had that guard there is because it was a
blind spot in their cameras.
“Why does he just leave?”
“Because his shift is over.”
“But why don’t they get another guy?”
“Because the night’s over,” said Sean.
Herman expected Paul to laugh. But he didn’t. It seemed that Paul was
fearful, in a way that he hadn’t seen him before.
They sat there eating their carrots and oatmeal. And then eventually Paul
did laugh and he said, “I got an idea.”
“What?”
“We gotta get a fire extinguisher.”
“For what?”
“To smoke ourselves out.”
They didn’t know what he meant. But he laughed more.
Paul was having a difficult time getting the drugs this time. He had the
money but his connection didn’t have their usual supply. Herman and Sean could see that he was acting strange and irritable. He didn’t speak much. He
looked very pale and he vomit throughout the day.
He told the library guard that he ate rare lobster. The library guard
believed him for a moment. It was strange for Herman to see the library
guard gullible like that.
Herman had not gotten very far in the book. The library guard took him
aside and got him to read the words out loud.
The library guard saw that Herman mixed up a lot of letters and he was
not the best reader. He got Herman to practice reading the sentences out
loud. Herman was embarrassed to do this in front of Paul and Sean but they
really didn’t care or think much of it.
Herman was younger than him so it made sense that he needed help
with his reading.
It was strange to the library guard that Paul was able to read like he did.
It was clear he had an extremely high intelligence. So much so that it made
it difficult for him to be in the world. The library guard did see quite a few
people that like. But none that read as fast as Paul did.
During this time when Paul was sick from the rare lobster, it was
especially strange that he wasn’t reading and laughing in the library. Instead
he vomit in the trash can.
He said that he didn’t need any help and that he was fine. Despite the
library guard’s insisting.
At night Paul called Herman over to the bed. He was having trouble
speaking but he said that he had organized another fight for him, if he was
interested. Herman said that he would be there.
The fight would take place the day before they were planning to go to
the corridor. If they won or lost.
They would go to the corridor and then they would climb into the air
vent. They would climb to the end of it and from there they would be lead
to the library. From the library they would be able to break through the
window and run towards the parking lot.
They would get there before the library guard started for the day. They would have to move quick if they were to beat him there but Sean was confident they could do it.
Herman looked around the room and thought of if there was anything
he wanted to take with him. It made him sad to realize there was nothing to
take. He thought of taking the pillow to have something to sleep on. He did
not know where they would be after they left. Even if he was out in a field
somewhere in the grass, it might be nice to have a pillow.
But he knew that he wouldn’t be able to carry it through the vent. He
asked Paul and Sean if they were taking anything. Sean had a small satchel
for him chess board but that was all. And Paul said he was going to jam his
pockets full of snacks. If there was any room left after they won all the
money from the fight.
Now that there weren’t that many drugs left Herman felt a lot more
worried about this upcoming fight than he did the last one. Or maybe it was
that he had more to lose this time.
For the last fight, even if he got his ass kicked it wouldn’t have mattered.
Because he didn’t know what it was like to win.
Paul told him that the guy he was facing was bigger than that the last
guy. He wasn’t as tall as the bull terrier, but he was as old as him and he
was heavy.
Herman lay on the mattress and looked up at the bed springs. He knew
that he would be there one more time. It felt like in a way it was the last
time. It was the last time he would go to sleep there and wake up and go to
breakfast. He would be with his buddies, Sean and Paul, either way. He
hoped that they would stick together after they left. But he began to worry
about that.
He asked them if they would stick together after they got out.
“Hell yeah brother,” said Paul and he laughed, “I’ll stick with you guys
until the end. That’s for sure.”
Sean nodded as well, “got no where else to go,” he said.
“Me too,” said Herman.
And then Herman asked, “do you guys know what you wanna do?”HERMAN’S JAIL 74
Paul said, “bet on fights and kick ass.”
Sean said, “I’ll keep playing chess.”
“Amen bro,” said Paul and he offered a fist bump to Sean.
Paul then gave a fist bump to Herman. And then Herman went to Sean
and gave him a fist bump.
Paul pulled a paper bag out from under this bed. He had gotten the
shipment in and had a lot of drugs on him.
He offered some to Herman and for the first time Herman said, that he
didn’t want to have any.
“All good brother,” Paul said.
“I don’t want to lose my fear.”
“How’s that?”
“For the fight,” said Herman.
Paul smiled and he said, “that’s fuckin awesome bro.”
Herman nodded.
“That’s real courage bro,” Paul said.
Herman was happy to hear that. It meant something coming from Paul,
who in his eyes was fearless. He saw Paul look into the depths of chaos and
laugh almost every day. For Paul to think that Herman had courage, in the
fight, especially after all the fights he had seen, that meant something.
Paul did the drugs and Herman hopped up and down and got ready for
the fight.
When it was time to leave Paul was too wasted to get up. His eyes were
open but it was like he was sleeping.
Herman shook him and tried to wake up him. He kept saying his name
over and over again. But it wasn’t enough. He just couldn’t wake up.
Sean didn’t want to go to the fight, but he saw the way that Herman
looked when he realized Paul wasn’t going to make it.
“I’ll come,” said Sean.
It seemed like it meant a lot to Herman that Sean did that.
The doors opened and they went outside. A lot of the other guys were there. Some of them were playing basketball. Some of them smoked
cigarettes and sat on the benches.
Herman and Sean stood by the wall and waited. They didn’t know who
the opponent would be at this point.
Sean said, “you see that part of the wall there?”
“Where?”
“Outside of the library window, go straight and to the left. There’s a
section missing from the wall.”
Herman saw it and said, “yeah.”
“That’s where we can climb over.”
Herman nodded.
“There’s a foot hold in the crack in it and it should be just enough to get
a boost and climb over.”
Herman realized in that moment that it was possible that the plan
wouldn’t work. He looked at Sean and was scared that it wouldn’t.
“What?” Asked Sean.
“Nothin,” said Herman.
Sean smiled and said, “yeah, it’s not perfect.”
Herman nodded.
A guy game up to them and said, “where’s Paul?”
“He can’t make it.”
“We fighting anyway?”
Sean looked at Herman.
Herman nodded.
They followed the guy. Herman saw his opponent. He was a whale of a
boy. Probably three or four years older than Herman.
Herman took off his shirt and got ready. The whale cracked knuckles
and looked at Herman like he was some kind of pip squeak.
Herman looked towards the doors. He was hoping that Paul would come
out. The fear of the fight had overwhelmed him.
Sean saw that he was looking for Paul and he said to him, “Herman, listen.”
Herman was breathing heavily.
“Herman,” Sean said and Herman looked at him. Sean said, “this is what
it is. You can take this guy.”
Herman was scared.
“You’re faster than him, and you could probably out last him, he’s going
to get tired. If you can survive a few hits from him. That’s all you’ll need.
You’re going to have to tire him out.”
Herman nodded. He could see that was true. If he had to take a few hits
from the whale here. So be it.
“What choice do you have, right?” Said Sean.
Herman nodded.
“You good?” Said Sean.
“Yeah.”
“Don’t even try to hit him. Wait until he’s tired and then choke him out.”
The fight began. Herman hopped up and down, he thought of himself
like a pawn on the board. He was going to do what Sean said.
Herman watched the whale closely. The whale wasn’t striking. He was
just watching Herman. Herman saw some openings to hit him but he didn’t
taken them. Instead the whale took the opening and smoked Herman in the
skull. Herman flew back and knocked his head back on the pavement.
Herman’s vision sparkled. The whale walked in a circle around him. It
was like he got flapped by his tail and face planted into the water like a
dumb minnow fish.
He thought of the book from the library. He thought of that whale. But
he did not know how they defeated the whale. He had not gotten that far.
He had not finished the book. He did not know if the whale killed everyone
or if someone survived.
Herman got back up and went for another round. The whale took slow
steps and this time upper cut Herman in the stomach. He flew backward
and hit the fence.
He was taken back to when he was thrown under the water fountain by Vova. Back at the school. When that girl asked him if he was okay. He got
up and saw Sean.
He wanted to listen to him, and he knew he should have but he was too
angry now. The whale went for another swing, thinking Herman was going
to dodge it again but this time Herman leaned in and clocked the whale in
the teeth. The whale feel backward. Herman hit him again and again, in the
face.
It seemed that Herman was blinded by an unstoppable rage. He no
longer thought of his opponents size. He just continued to punch him,
alternating hands. There was blood on Herman’s hands from the other boy’s
teeth, that were also bleeding. He continued to hit him until he was pulled
over by the others. And that is how Herman defeated the whale.
Sean knew that the guard saw what they were doing but didn’t want to
intervene. Sean guided Herman out of the crowd.
Herman’s eyes were full of tears after the fight but he wasn’t crying. He
was overwhelmed by the release of everything that had happened between
this moment and when he was thrown under the fountain. It seemed in a
way he had won. If Vova would come after him now, after all that he had
been through, he wouldn’t stand a chance.
Herman punched the brick wall when he thought of that. Sean was taken
aback. He could see that nothing would be enough for Herman. Even after
taking down a whale like that.
Herman thought of the money. He didn’t know if Paul had bet against
him or for him. But he didn’t care about that anymore. He would do
everything he could to not take those drugs anymore. He would tell Paul
that he was done with them. They could keep the money either way. He was
fighting for himself and he had won.
They went back into the room and Paul was still in the bed.
Herman was excited and said, “we won!”
Sean went back to his chess game.
Herman went to Paul and said again, “we won man!”
Paul didn’t respond. Herman shook him. “Man,” Herman said. He felt that Paul’s body was cold. He shook him again.
Herman kept trying to wake up him.
Sean came over. He saw in that moment that Paul was gone. But
Herman did not see it that clearly.
He kept repeating his name, over and over again.
Sean stood there. Until he said, “Herman,” but Herman didn’t listen to
him.
Sean put his elbow onto Herman and that made him stop.
They were there until the sun went down. They sat quietly unsure if
they should call in the guard to let them know that Paul was dead.
Herman sat beside Paul for a long time. Sean stood there. Eventually he
went back to the chess board.
Herman did not go back to his mattress. He did not go to look at the
springs.
He watched the clock and did not lose sight of the fact that they were
still going to leave that night when the guard’s shift ended.
Sean focused on his chess game.
“Are you coming man?” Said Herman.
Sean didn’t look up.
“Man,” said Herman, “you ready?”
Sean still didn’t say anything. In that moment Herman could see that he
wasn’t going to come either.
Herman looked at the clock in the hallway. He could see the guard from
the sliver in the window.
He looked back at Sean. Sean looked up at him and nodded.
“Hey Herman,”
“Yeah?”
“You were a good friend to him.”
Herman nodded back at him.
And with that Herman saw the guard leave and he opened the lock and
went towards the corridor.
He looked back once and saw Sean still looking closely at the chess pieces. Sean did not look up to see him go.
Herman climbed up into the rafters and crawled through them like a rat
in the dust.
He did not know where he was going. He tried to be careful as he
moved through the vent. All he could do was follow it forwards.
As Sean told him, the vent would lead to the library. He continued
through and was having difficulty breathing. Until he came to a massive fan.
He did was feeling more scared and trapped. He did not have a way out of
the vent and it was too small for him to turn around.
He tried to move backwards but he was stuck on something and his leg
started to cramp. He was panicking and he thought he must have gone the
wrong way.
He started kicking below himself until the metal broke. He slipped out
and fell through the drop ceiling. And crashed onto the library bookshelf.
He was covered in dust and looking like a dust rat. He rushed towards
the window. He saw that his leg had been cut and was bleeding through his
pants but it didn’t hurt as badly as it looked like it would.
He went toward the window and started breaking it open like Sean had
told him to. The glass smashed and he tore through the wiring. He could see
the way out.
He saw the Moby Dick book on the shelf. He felt a massive sense of
regret and sadness that he would not have finished that book. And then he
would have let down the library guard. He did not know if he should take it
with him or if he should run.
He kept breaking open the window. There was enough space for him to
get through.
He went back to the shelf and he took the book. And then the library
guard opened the door.
“Herman,” the library guard said.
Herman was frozen. The library guard did not know what to do. He
could see that Herman was in a state of desperation.
“Herman, what’s going on?” 
Herman didn’t respond.
“You want to talk?”
The library guard could see that Herman held the book.
“Where will you go?” The library guard asked him.
This question overwhelmed Herman. He didn’t know. Especially now
that Sean and Paul weren’t coming with him.
“You want to take the book with you?” The guard asked him.
This overwhelmed Herman. The idea that the library guard saw that he
came back for the book made Herman feel vulnerable. It seemed that scared
him more than facing the bull terrier, the second opponent whose ass he
kicked or the whale. The library guard saw him for who he was.
Herman did not know if the library guard was going to let him go or if
he was going to force him to stay.
He did not know if the library guard was going to be the next opponent.
Herman never thought of fighting him, but he didn’t know if he had a
choice.
The library guard looked at the window, the broken glass and the torn
mesh wiring.
“You can stay here Herman, they don’t have to know you did this. But if
you try to leave I’m going to stop you.”
Herman felt betrayed by the library guard, but understood. He dropped
the book and ran towards the window.
The library guard went after him and held him back. Herman tried to
squirm and fight but he was no match for the library guard. He could even
get a punch in. The library guard was three times his size. He had Herman’s
arms pinned down and his face pushed against the carpet and touching the
glass and the wire.
“Are you going to run?” He asked Herman.
Herman breathed heavily. He looked through the broken wire, towards
the point in the wall past where he fought the whale and where Sean
showed him where he could climb.
“Herman, are you going to run?”
Herman still tried to squirm out of the library guard’s hold.
He couldn’t reach the phone on the desk. So he dragged Herman there,
across the ground.
There was a metal toilet that was built into the wall. The room was an
off yellow, some kind of dead egg color. The door was made of steel and
there was no window. The bed was built into the wall and the foam
mattress was shredded and thin.
They made him wear a shirt that matched the pants they gave to him.
He didn’t have a book or anything.
They would send a tray of foot through an opening in the door at a
certain point in the day. He didn’t like the food much.
He sat on the ground. He thought of Paul and continued to remember
that he was gone. He had taken all of the drugs that he had gotten. He had
taken so much that it killed him. Herman could have saved Paul if he had
taken the drugs also. That was his regret. If Paul had come with him then
Sean would have come and then the three of them would have escaped
together.
But it was too good to be true. The reality was that nothing would
change. The reality was that things would just continue getting worse.
That’s where he felt he was now.
He tried to close his eyes and feel nothing but it was impossible. The
guilt that he had let Paul die continued to spiral in him endlessly.
Somehow, as if his mind was playing tricks on him, he kept thinking
that Paul wasn’t actually dead. But he knew that it was.
He thought of a time that him and Paul were walking around the
corridor and they saw that one of the other people’s dorm was open. They
went inside and looked around. Paul became very angry and he tossed the
mattresses off of the beds and he threw a shelf at the wall. Herman joined
him and they destroyed every single thing in the room. There was even a
small blue ukulele that they found that Paul pissed inside of. They laughed
so hard that Herman thought that he was going to piss his own pants and

then he also pissed on the ukulele.
They left that dorm and never spoke about it ever again. No one ever
asked them if they were the ones that did it. Herman laughed when he
thought of that. They didn’t even tell Sean about it. It was just them. And
now that Paul was dead it was just him that knew that.
Herman thought of a time that him and Paul were taking drugs together.
And Paul told him about the time that he decided to rob a bank. Paul
laughed as he told the story. He said that he went into the bank and he
wore a black nylon stocking on his face. Paul said he looked like a squished
gnome with that and he was laughing his ass off when he thought of the
way he looked. He said he didn’t even go in with a gun or a knife or
anything. He said he went in there with his pet newt in a mason jar. Paul
said that he went up to the teller and said this is a robbery, and if you don’t
give me all you’ve got in that entire damn vault I’ll open this jar and send
my newt Larry after you. He said it scared the pants off of the tellers. And
then started to back up the money. He even took the bag and walked down
the street for a couple blocks with it.
He had no idea what he was going to do with the money. He didn’t even
want any of it but he thought it was very funny to be walking down the
street with all of that cash.
From there he took the cash to a convenience store and then he started
lighting the bags of chips on fire. The guy who ran the gas station
convenience store was losing his mind and screaming but Paul kept laughing
at him. He said the smoke filled the entire shop and they had to run out of
their coughing. He dragged the money out but the garbage bag that he had
ripped open and the money started going everywhere.
Paul thought that the gas station would have exploded but it never did.
He said it was probably for the best, it would have caused a lot of damage
and someone may have gotten hurt in the end if he did that.
It made Herman feel better to think about all of these adventures that
Paul had. Somehow Herman had the idea that Paul didn’t really care that he was dead. He just imagined Paul laughing his way to the bank even in his
grave.
Paul had told him many times that he was already dead. He told him
about other drugs that he’d taken where he understood that. Herman didn’t
really understand what he meant by that at the time and he still didn’t fully,
but he felt like Paul already thought he had died a few times before.
Herman never got to find out what happened in the room after he left.
He wanted to know if Sean went and found the guard in the morning and
showed him that Paul was dead or perhaps he just left him there and went
about his ordinary life and let them find him.
Maybe once they took Herman away they checked the room and found
him. He wondered if he would find Sean again and he hoped sincerely that
he would. He thought that maybe Sean had been taken to the place he was
now. But they hadn’t let him out of this room for a long time. It could have
been three days or it could have been a week. Herman wasn’t able to tell.
He started to count the meals he had but he was confused at to when
the starting point was. He would start from then, whichever day it was.
This would be day one.
Herman walked with the others down the hall. He didn’t know anyone.
When he would turn a corner he hoped to see Sean or Paul but they weren’t
there.
He went into the shower. The water was cold. There was a partition
between him and the others but there was no door to close. All of the boys
showered at the same time and they were only allowed to spend a few
minutes.
They cut his hair short again which he didn’t mind. His hair was longer
than he liked it to be before. But they left a chunk on the middle of his head
and he wanted to get it fixed.
There wasn’t a mirror for him to see but he continued to feel the extra
hairs and he thought about it constantly.
His thoughts went into waves about the drugs, sometimes he would be obsessed by them and go into sweats and his thoughts happened so fast that
he was unable to catch any of them. He felt like he had had face against a
fan or it they were being pushed by a massive wave or a tornado.
He wished he could stop it when it was happening but it seemed as
though there was no way to do so. Without any warning the thoughts would
then vanish and he would remember that they had even disappeared.
He closed his eyes and tried to imagine the bedsprings from his old
room. He imagined them like they were coils on an oven. He imagined then
turning red with the heat and lighting the sky on fire. He imagined the
clouds were combusting and exploding and the entire earth burning to a
crisp. He thought of himself and Paul and Sean and though then, after the
world burned they could hang out together again.
It seemed to be more often now that he was going to the showers with
the others. He was having trouble keeping track of all the days.
Most of the moments had become insufferable. He had hit his head
against the tile repeatedly. He didn’t know he was doing it but it seemed like
being disoriented or in pain at least give him something to concentrate on
aside from his own thoughts.
When the food came he tried to eat it as slowly as possible. He didn’t
know what he was eating. He used some of the vegetables to try and create
a chessboard but he didn’t have enough variation to complete the set. He
still tried to play chess like Sean did.
He felt that if he kept his eyes closed and sat on the ground he was able
to get by. He thought of the window at the old school and the way he used
to stare at it until his thoughts went numb.
He thought of that old school and he thought of that security guard with
his hair split in the middle and he thought of the way his face looked when
he pierced the pencil into his rib cage. He thought of the man’s face, it
looked like it was suffocating and his eyes became hollow. How thought of
him falling onto the ground and he thought of how his body looked when it
stopped moving. He thought of how his fingers became contorted and how it felt watch the life leave his body. Herman remembered that man’s face like
he was an old friend.
Herman thought of that old window and he thought of the auto shop
that he used to imagine. It was like that his old memories had become
places in themselves and he felt like he was nostalgic for the way he used to
dream about fixing up those busted cars.
There as no road to see from the window now. There was no window in
the wall. There was only the opening where the food tray came in.
It was then that Herman became very angry and when he thought of the
man that died in front of him, he picked up the food tray and frisbee’d it
across the room. The same way he did at the school. But now there was no
one there to know he did it. Only himself. There was nowhere to hide and
there was no need to hide. Not even from himself. He was filled will rage
and pounded on the steel door over and over again. He thought of the
guard’s face and he thought of Paul. They mixed together and he thought of
Paul’s laugh and Paul’s face without life and he thought of the guard’s fear
and he thought of the guard telling him that he wasn’t going to give him
any trouble. But Herman did not believe him. Not when he was pushed so
far into the corner from all of the other people in his life. Not after he had
gotten beat up by Vova and not after Adam had stopped being his friend.
Herman picked up the tray and smashed it onto the ground. He screamed
and no one heard him. And then he hit his head against the wall twice, as
hard as he ever had.
He kept his eyes closed. His face was on the ground. He did not
remember falling asleep. The tray was on the ground. It was barely
damaged. The food was where it was. Nothing had happened. There was no
one but himself. It was then for the first time that he knew what he had
done. He had not killed Paul, he had killed the guard. He had stabbed him
with the pencil that Ms. Eerie gave to him.
He had not told Paul or Sean or even himself that he did that until now.
He continued to think of that. He breathed the air and he considered that.
Herman was looked by a doctor. They made him cough and they check his mouth with a flashlight. The doctor didn’t ask him any questions. He
just checked to make sure that his body was still functioning and then they
sent him back to his room.
He was more used to sitting there. His thoughts seemed to bubble in
different outbursts. There was no telling when they would become out of
control or when they would be manageable. He didn’t understand it one
way or another. He saw them as an annoyance at this point and for the
most part wanted to ignore them. Some days it was more easy than others.
When he was in the showers he began to recognize some of the others.
There was a group that seemed to stick together often. They didn’t speak to
each other much and when they did it was in whispers or they spoke so
closely to one another that he couldn’t hear what they said.
He did not know if he would have to fight any of them. If it came to that
then that would be the way it was. And in the meantime he practiced what
he could in this room. He did his stretches and his sit ups and his pushups.
He hopped up and down and worked on his punching. He worked on
everything that Paul taught him.
He liked to work until he was so tired that he couldn’t anymore. That
was the only way that he felt like he could get any rest. If he didn’t do that
then he would only sleep in small bursts and he would wake up, often like
his stomach was full of acid and his chest was burning. It was like he had
swallowed a hot coal.
He turned the shower to the coldest setting. It didn’t go ask hot as he
wanted so instead he went the other way. It frightened him how the water
felt on his skin when it was that cold and it seemed like that did something
helpful for his mind. It made his thoughts disappear for a moment.
He had come closer to making a chess board from the scraps of food
that he kept. He found it difficult to play against himself. Instead in his mind
he pretended he was playing Sean and that felt like it was important.
He wondered if Sean ever really planned to leave or if he was just
finding a route for Herman and Paul to use if they wanted to. Sometimes, when he wasn’t feeling great about himself, he thought that Sean just
wanted them out of there so he could have some peace and quiet but
eventually he realized that Sean would have come if he could. He really did
believe in the friendship that he had with those two.
He found that even despite not being around them anymore their
friendship remained and that feeling didn’t fade. It didn’t fade like the anger
he felt and it didn’t fade like the drugs that he took with Paul all of those
times. It didn’t fade like the pain of getting his ass kicked by whoever.
It came time that Herman was sent outside to be with the others. They
gave him a blue fleece jacket that he was very happy to have. It was soft and
kept him warm.
There were a lot of groups of guys. It seemed like there were all kind of
teams. There were some guys playing basketball together. He looked along
the gate. He was tempted to walk along it but he didn’t want people to see
him. He thought it would have been best to find a corner to stay in. One
that he could see anyone coming.
He could see his breath and he could see that soon it would snow. It was
strange to feel the air on his face at first, but he got used to it quickly. He
enjoyed watching the basketball games. Other than that he did his best not
to look at anyone. Even if he knew they were looking at him. He tried to be
as absent as he could.
He sat in his cell and always wore his blue jacket. He never wanted to
take it off. Something about it made him feel better than without. He felt
protected by it.
He began to worry about going into the showers. He had the feeling like
the group of guys were plotting something or wanted something from him.
He tried not showering but he got thrown into it by the guard at one
point. The guards here were much bigger than the others he had known.
These guards never talked they just yelled orders and did not talk. They
stool still most of the time never let anyone stay still or do anything out of
line. They had no problem walking people with their sticks. Even for no reason.
Herman was hit badly in the hip once. He didn’t see it coming. He
thought it might have been that he was standing too close to the wall when
he walked from his room to the shower.
The pain was so much that he didn’t even think about striking back in
the moment.
When he sat in his room with his blue sweater his thoughts sometimes
bubbled up in a way that he thought of snaking that stick from the guard
and pushing it through his ribcage. He thought of the next time one of those
guards messed with him, he would take that stick and force it through the
front of their ribs and force it right through the middle of their chest and it
would come out the other side. He knew that he could do it. If they pushed
him far enough, he would have to. He wouldn’t do it unless he had to. If
they left him be then he would keep pretending to be a ghost in the yard.
Herman had been switched into a different cell. There were bars along
the wall. The bed he had was easier to lie down on. There was a sink and a
small vent under it. There was no window. He could switch the light on and
off. There was a small shelf as well.
Every few hours an alarm would go off and the guard would yell,
“count.” Everyone would come out and stand in the hallway. The guard
would count each person. Even when they were sleeping. It would happen
every six hours but sometimes it would switch for no reason.
Herman felt extremely bothered when he was woken up from his sleep
and had to stand for the count.
He hated having to stand out there with everyone. He hated the bars
most of all because he never felt like he could be alone. There was always
another bastard on the other side of the room that he had to look at or that
could look at him.
He preferred to have been in the room where he didn’t see anyone. But
they kept that for people that were new and for people that did something
that really made them mad.
Herman didn’t feel like getting into any trouble at this point. He was just tired for the most part. He felt exhausted all of the time. He didn’t want to
do anything except sleep and leave. But he knew that leaving was more
impossible now than ever before.
He looked at the yellow bricks that surrounded him and tried not to
think of anything. He just slept and when he wasn’t tired he lay with his
eyes closed and did nothing.
He had to go into a lunch line now. He had to hold his tray along the
line and they would scoop food onto his dish. And then he had to go sit on
the benches with the others.
Everyone sat in groups for the most part. He made the mistake of sitting
next to a certain group of people that wanted to do with him. They didn’t
even say anything to him, they just took his tray and through it onto the
ground.
The guard came over and yelled at him to pick up the food and told him
to sit down and eat it. Herman didn’t eat it and he was very hungry until
the next meal.
He sat across from some guy who introduced himself but Herman didn’t
want to talk to him. He didn’t remember his name and the guy didn’t seem
to care that Herman wasn’t listening. The guy just kept talking about
whatever he was talking about and didn’t care that Herman wasn’t listening
to him.
When they would go outside that guy tried to follow Herman and he
still told him all of his thoughts but Herman still didn’t listen to him. He
couldn’t understand what the guy was talking about. The guy’s eyebrows
were very large and connected in the middle and he was very fat. Herman
could see that he didn’t fight much and he had no desire to fight him but he
felt like he might have to one day if the guy didn’t stop following him
around.
Herman could see that the other guys knew that he kept being following
by that guy and then they would think that they were fiends. Herman didn’t
want to be friends with anyone at this point. He didn’t feel like he had the energy to speak to anyone. He didn’t want to go through it all again. He
didn’t want to have to explain everything about him and he just wanted
Sean and Paul to be his friends as usual.
There was a book cart that came up and down the hallways at night.
People were allowed to take the books if they wanted to. Herman looked at
the cart when it went by to see if his book was there but he didn’t see it.
Every day he looked but he was never able to find that book. Until one
day when he was walking back to his cell and he saw that one of the other
guys had it in his cell. He stopped walking and looked inside the cell. He
saw that the guy had a bunch of photographs of women on his shelf. He
didn’t know whose cell it was. The guard yelled at him to keep walking.
When Herman went back to his cell he waited by the bars to see whose
cell it was. He waited for a long time and didn’t see anyone come in until it
was lights out.
When the book cart came again the next day he asked the guy if he
could get that copy of Moby Dick that was in that guy’s cell. The guy who
pushed the cart said that guy was going to be gone for a while. He was
locked up in the delta block.
“What’s delta block?”
“Where you were before you were here.”
Herman nodded and said, “can I get that book then?”
“When he gives it back.”
Herman was pissed off to hear this.
The guy in the cell next to him was crying and screaming. This was
happening more often. When he did this the guard’s would come and yell at
him. They would hit the bars with their sticks. Once he did it and they took
a hose and blasted the guy. Herman laughed at him when they did that.
But today when they were doing that Herman had the idea to steal the
key ring off of a guard and then he could get that book.
It would be more difficult than taking the wallet, like he took the library
guard’s, but he could do it.
Whenever he looked at the guard’s he would look at the key ring and try to understand how it was attached to their belt buckle. He lay in his bed
with his eyes closed and motioned with his fingers. Trying to practice what
movement it would take to get the keys.
When Herman lay there and tried to make the motion of grabbing the
keys he was reminded of when he took the library guard’s wallet and it
made him feel like he was himself or it made him feel like he was home. It
brought comfort to him.
He would get the key from the guard, open the cell with the book, take
it and then get rid of the key. He felt that if he had that book, he could read
it and return to where he was before he had come here.
He had to spend time in what they called the recreation room. Everyone
from his floor would go there. They would watch a movie or sometimes
someone would come in and play music.
Herman didn’t mind watching the movies. Most of the guys there were
the same.
The guy that followed him around outside kept talking during the
movie. Someone came over and punched him in the face. It didn’t stop him.
The guy came back and punched him in the face again.
Herman was getting angry at the guy for punching him. He knew it was
annoying but the guy couldn’t help himself. Some of the guys laughed when
he punched him and another guy told him to shut the fuck up.
Some of them looked at Herman and told them to tell him to shut up.
Herman didn’t say anything. But he was feeling bad for that guy. He knew
that he couldn’t control himself. Herman was almost going to kick that
guy’s ass, who punched the guy but he didn’t want to fight.
The guard came and took the guy out of there. They just tossed him in
his cell. Everyone applauded when they did that.
The rest of the time when they watched the movie Herman just thought
of that guy who got kicked out. Herman had a hard time paying attention to
the movie from that point onward. He looked at the guy who kept punching
the guy that followed him and every time that guy changed his facial expression or laughed Herman became angry.
When Herman went back to his cell that night he began doing sit ups
again. He was sore because it had been a while since he did them but he
pushed on anyways and did as many as he could remember doing before.
In the morning when he woke up his back and stomach were sore from
the sit ups.
The guy followed him and kept talking to him about nonsense. The guy
was talking about canary birds and toucans and parrots and all kinds of
weird birds that Herman barely cared about.
Herman turned around and yelled at him and said, “what you missed in
the movie, they go to the house and they see that the woman was actually a
ghost and then she casts a spell on them and they become stuck in the
house forever too.”
The guy looked at him blankly for a minute and he just blinked. Herman
stared at him and waited for him to say something but the guy didn’t say a
damn thing. He just went back to yammering on. And he didn’t go back to
talking about the birds he talked about baseball scores of the games he had
seen on television and how they were different than the hockey scores he
had seen. Herman couldn’t believe how crazy this guy was.
Herman thought of kicking his ass and sending him on his way once and
for all but he didn’t do it.
Herman looked at the dirt in the field and the grass. He looked at the
wall that surrounded the building and the outside. He looked at the barbed
wire that went around the top of the wall. He said to the guy, “hey man,
what do you think of that barbed wire?”
The guy looked at him and looked at the barbed wire. And then he went
back to talking about sports scores again.
Herman really couldn’t believe how crazy this guy was. He was
beginning to think it was pretty funny.
“You ever think of busting out of this place?” Herman asked him.
The guy muttered to himself about the sports scores. He didn’t respond to what Herman said.
“My name’s Herman,” he said.
The guy didn’t make eye contact with him he just kept muttering.
Herman was beginning to feel comfortable around this guy.
“I don’t even know your damn name. What’s your name man?” Herman
asked.
The guy looked dumbly at Herman.
“Alright, you got no name. So what? I don’t even know why I got a
name. I don’t know jack shit about that.”
The other guys saw that Herman was talking to him. Herman could see
that and he decided he didn’t care at this point. For some reason Herman
thought that it was probably good to be friends with this guy. He had a
feeling like he could trust him to be who he was. The one thing about him
that was different than most people is that he really wasn’t pretending to be
anything that he wasn’t.
He could see that the darkness that he saw in this guy was even more
vast than his own. And for that reason he would talk to him.
They walked around the field and the guy talked about whatever the hell
it was he was saying. And every once in a while Herman would tell him
something that he thought. And even though they didn’t understand what
the hell each other were talking about, it seemed like they fit in with one
another.
During lunch Herman felt something hit the back of his head. The guy
got up and moved like a rhinoceros towards the guy who through the pizza
stick. Herman got up and turned around. He followed along and the guy
picked the guy who through the food at Herman. He tossed him onto the
table and ruined all of his friend’s meals. Those guys got up and tried to
kick his ass but there was no stopping him.
Especially when Herman had his back. They took out everyone at the
entire table. Those guys didn’t stand a chance against them. The guy found
brutally. He smashed those guys heads into one another. He even tried to tear off a guy’s leg. Herman got some good hits in too and he couldn’t wipe
the smile off his face.
When the guards came and broke up the fight he learned that the guy’s
name was Adam. Herman had a friend named Adam before.
Herman lay in his bed and knew that he was going to have to fight
again. It was probably only the beginning and there was no ending.
He didn’t know how long he was supposed to be in this place and if he
would ever be allowed to leave. In a way it scared him more to leave, he had
nowhere left to go. He wouldn’t have a room or any food or anything.
But still the idea of getting out of there did not leave him. When he was
outside he looked at the wall but there was no getting through it. He tried
to find any way to climb it, even in a strange way like Sean had figured out
but he didn’t see anything.
He thought of Adam and his strength. Maybe Adam could crash the wall
down. He thought of it but he didn’t bring it up to him. Even if he did bring
it up to him he wouldn’t understand what the hell he was even saying.
The building was too high up to climb off of. There was nowhere to
jump to. He would fall to his death if he tried. He just stood there and
looked at the clouds and the sun until his eyes burned and all he saw was
light.
When Herman was in his cell he looked at the floor below him. It was
made of a weird rubber. He tried to find an edge to it. If he could peel it off
and see what was beneath it maybe there was a way to go underground.
They only had plastic utensils while they ate their meals and the trays
were plastic.
He could see that the cooks had different metal utensils that they used
for serving. He thought that if he could perhaps steal one of those it would
help. He would have to get the long spoon and then put it down into his
pants and have it sit there.
The guards checked everyone after they went outside and after they
worked in the community garden and the shop but not after they ate.
He knew it wasn’t a good idea but whenever he stood in line to get his food he stared at the giant serving spoon.
He thought that maybe he could do it if he was fast enough.
But even if he did get it, there was no telling it would even do anything.
He thought of breaking the spoon part off and then it might just be a sword.
Maybe he could wedge that in and peel the floor off.
He thought of Sean and tried to imagine what he would say about it. It
occurred to him that Sean would not do anything except wait and watch
until he knew every angle and every detail. Sean would not act unless
everything was perfect and thought through to the best of his ability.
Herman often wondered what it was that made Herman stay back at the
end of the day. He wondered if Sean would have come with him, if they
would have worked together, maybe they would have got out.
Herman thought of writing a letter to Sean. But he was scared to do so.
He didn’t know if Sean would want to hear from him. He didn’t know what
he would say in the letter. Maybe Sean just wanted to be left alone so that
he could work on his chess.
In a way he hoped that Sean would one day come to where Herman was
now. But it was worse here and he knew that Sean wouldn’t be able to play
chess in the same way that he did before.
Herman still practiced the way he would take the key from the guard. It
occurred to him that perhaps that would be the answer. If he could steal the
guard’s keys he could probably walk out the front door. Maybe it could be
that simple.
He thought of the way that the pawn could get to the other side of the
board. They just had to go one square at a time, very quietly and they could
get there and then become any piece they felt like. Thinking of that gave
Herman a strong feeling.
And then he saw that the guy who had the book had returned. And that
was the craziest guy he’d ever seen. Just by looking at him. He was very
short and one of his eyes wandered off. He had a tooth the protruded
through his gums and looked like it was very sharp.
Herman saw that he never touched the book. It was just sitting there on his shelf. He could ask him for it. But Herman didn’t care about it as much
now. It seemed like the best thing for him to do was focus on getting the
keys and finding a way out.
And during outside time when Adam was following him talking about
some thing Herman had no idea about Herman turned around and said,
“hey. Man. You ever thinking of busting out of here?”
Adam stopped talking. And for the first time Herman saw him smile.
Perhaps he wasn’t as dumb as he thought.
Herman was put on laundry duty. He had to wash toss everyone’s soiled
clothes into the machine and then run it through the dryer and then iron
them and fold them back onto the rack.
He hated the job for the most part. Sometimes when the work was
repetitive enough he felt like he lost himself in it. He used to like that kind
of thing but now that he saw it as a deterrent from making him plan to
escape. He needed to spend every minute considering all of the details,
watching and thinking, in order to ever find a way out. That’s how Sean did
it and that’s how he did it.
The iron he used on the clothes was one big metal piece and he didn’t
see how it could be useful. There was a pole that could be removed from
the racks but there was no way he could sneak it back to his cell. It was too
big to conceal anywhere.
He looked at the dry soap suds and the box they came in but there still
wasn’t anything.
There were a few other guys who worked down there with him. They
never spoke to Herman and he never spoke to them. They talked about a lot
of the people that were there. Herman learned that there was a guy named
Theodore who was supposed to be there even after he died. It seemed he
had a lot of power and a lot of people did stuff for him. He had a lot of
connections in the real world and when people would get out he would get
them jobs making money.
It seemed like the jobs were mostly drug related. People needed to move packages from one place to another or get the money from different
customers and things like that.
Both of the guys that worked in the laundry room wanted to get in on
that as much as possible. More than anything they just wanted the money.
They talked about getting their own apartments or getting a room at a
house. They were a bit older than Herman. He thought about what it would
be like if he had to fight them. He could probably take one of the guys but
he wasn’t sure if he could take both of them at once.
He listened to their conversations about moving the drugs around and
he got the impression that they were bringing the drugs in to the building.
There was a side of Herman that got excited by that idea. It would make
some of the days a lot more bearable if he had drugs again but what was
more interesting to him is the way that they would do it.
He knew that some of the people had visitors. Herman didn’t have any
visitors so he didn’t really know about the process. But it seemed like that
was one of the ways that they did it.
One of the laundry guys was getting ready for a visitor. The other guy
wished him luck. And then the next time they were on laundry duty that
guy wasn’t there again.
Herman didn’t know where Adam’s cell was. He knew that it was on the
floor above, which Herman hadn’t been to. He knew that Theodore was up
there as well. He didn’t know what Theodore looked like, but he imagined
him in a certain way. He thought he would be a fat guy with squinty eyes
and be really strong and have no hair.
Herman received a package for the first time. It was wrapped brown
paper. Herman stared at it for a long time before he opened it. He
recognized its shape.
It was a copy of Moby Dick. From the old library guard. He had sent
him that copy. He had written a message for him. The message didn’t say
much. But when Herman read it he remembered that the library guard
understood him and that hadn’t changed.
It was strange to feel like that guard was still around. It almost caused Herman to feel upset. It was easier to have left that life behind. It had begun
to feel like the whole thing had just vanished and didn’t exist at this point.
But this book and this message was proof that it was still there.
It was proof that Paul was once and alive and now he was dead and it
was proof that Sean was probably still there and it was proof that Herman
himself exist. And that meant that everything he had done exist.
It seemed that for some time there, Herman was able to forget why he
was where he was. It was easier in a way to live in that denial, but now that
he saw that book he had a sense of being himself. And with that he felt like
he could focus and he could escape from this place if he wanted.
The same way he escaped from the last place.
He stared blankly at the window and saw the exhaust rising upward. He
looked over towards the machine.
When he was outside he looked at the exhaust again. He saw that it
came from a giant vent on the side of the building. And it seemed like that
vent was connected to the dryer.
He stared at it for the entire time he was outside. He saw that at a
certain point the exhaust stopped. And then there was a break and then it
started again. He could hear the rhythm behind the concrete. It was
connected to the dryer.
He lay in his bed and he stared upwards towards the ceiling. He
remembered the springs and how eventually they felt like home. Perhaps
this ceiling too, one day would be feel the same. With enough time anything
could become home. But Herman didn’t care about that anymore. He
wanted to get out of there. Not because he had anywhere to go or anywhere
he didn’t want to be but because fighting for himself was who he was.
There were guys playing basketball like usual and some guy tried to get
Herman’s attention when he walked outside but Herman ignored her. He
never saw that guy before and he didn’t want to talk to him.
Herman was looking at the vent and the steam. He saw that the vent
went quite high upward. And it wrapped around the building towards a side that he couldn’t see.
This guy was a pest and he still kept trying to get Herman’s attention.
He kept saying, “hey man, hey man. Yo man. Man.”
“What the fuck do you want man?” Herman said to him. He was ready
to kick this guys ass if he didn’t leave him alone.
Herman was really trying to focus and figure out how to break out of
this damn jail and now this guy wouldn’t stop talking to him.
He didn’t know where Adam was. He figured he had visitors or was in
one of his appointments or something like that.
“Yo man, yo. Yo.”
“What?” Said Herman.
“Yo come here man,” the guy said.
“What?”
“Yo I gotta ask you something come here man.”
Herman stared at him.
“Yo just come here.”
“Fuck you man.”
The guy walked up to Herman. Herman could see that the guy had his
hand in his pocket and wasn’t taking it out. The guy said, “you on laundry
duty?”
Herman didn’t say anything. He watched the guy move closer to him.
The guy took his hand out of his pocket and had some kind of blade.
He said, “Syd Dewson sends his regard” and jabbed it into Herman and
it cut along his neck.
Herman grabbed that bastard by his neck and the guy tried to stab him
with the blade but Herman grabbed his hand. He used all his strength and
tried to break the guy’s arm in half. Herman tackled the guy down. He bit
into the guy’s hand and felt his teeth breath his flesh. He continued to choke
the guy out, and was not going to stop until the guy stopped moving.
Herman knew how fast that guy could end his life if he didn’t put an
end to him. Herman thought of the guard from the school and how he had
&2345678901234567890123456789&HERMAN’S JAIL 100
killed him. And now this guy was coming after him.
Herman didn’t know who Syd Dewson was. He’d never heard the name
before in his life. He could see that this guy, whoever he was, didn’t want to
kill him for his own sake. He was doing it because someone got him too.
When the guy mentioned the laundry service he thought that maybe this
guy thought he was one of the guys that he worked with in the laundry
room.
Herman saw some guys come over to him. There were about four of
them. He recognized one of them. He kept choking the guy. He would do it
for as long as he could until those other guys got to close and then he
would book it out of there. But another guy came from behind him.
“I’ll snap this guy’s neck,” said Herman.
“Easy kid,” said one of the guys. He was bigger than Herman but he
didn’t want to fight, he said, “do you know who I am?”
“Fuck off,” said Herman. The guy smiled.
Herman felt the blood on his neck from where the guy cut him.
“Let him go,” he said to Herman, “and we won’t feed your nuts to the
termites.”
Herman didn’t know what he meant by that and said, “what termites?”
“We sent him after you as a test, and you know what?”
“Fuck off.”
“We could use someone like you with us,” the guy picked up the blade
and looked at it.
Herman let the guy go. He tossed him on the ground and walked
backwards where no one was.
“You want our protection?”
“No.”
“Wrong answer boy,” the guy said. Herman could see his demeanour
changing.
“Fuck off,” Herman said.
“You want to run?”
The other guys walked towards him.HERMAN’S JAIL 101
Herman could see that they wanted to kick his ass. But there was no
way he was going to do what they said. He should have killed that guy when
he had the chance. But he didn’t want to kill another guy. Then he would be
stuck with him forever.
In that moment Herman knew that he didn’t have a choice. He thought
of Paul laughing in the face of this and he thought of Sean assurance that he
was put in a position where he had to do something and that was how he
would win. Because he could not lose.
And so he decided he wouldn’t run. Because even if he did and he got
away, there would be tomorrow. He would have to fight again then.
“I’ll ask you one more time little man,” he said, “you want to talk or
not?”
Herman had his fists up already, he put up one of his middle fingers.
And then the guy, with one nod, sent all of his henchman after Herman.
The first guy that came up to him, Herman swung left and right and
clocked him one in the jaw. The guy hit the ground. He got up pretty fast.
And now the next guy took a swing. Herman dodged it but another guy
grabbed his arms and held him there. The guy swung again. Herman took
that one. But the next he was able to squirm out of the guys grip and elbow
him in the nose. The guy fell backwards. Herman hit the big guy with all he
had. As fast as he could and the guy put his arms up to block but then the
other two guys came after Herman and knocked him down.
Until all Herman saw was fists and sneakers. He was on the ground
trying to get up but he couldn’t. All of the hits blended into one and he just
tried to curl into his shell like a turtle.
That was the worst that Herman ever got his ass kicked. He woke up in
the infirmary. None of his bones were broken but he was too sore to move
his arms or walk. He had two black eyes and it was difficult to see.
They had attacked him when Adam was gone. They knew that was when
he was weakened. If Adam was there then they could have taken those guys.
Herman didn’t understand why they wanted to kick his ass. His thoughts
&2345678901234567890123456789&HERMAN’S JAIL 102
were very hazy but that is what he continued to think about.
The more he thought about what had happened the more he realized
that they wanted him on their team. And if he wasn’t going to join them
they were going to kick his ass. They weren’t going to give him a choice.
He thought of the fight over and over again. He was doing okay but it
came to a point where he lost total control.
The cut on his neck was not as painful as the way the rest of his body
felt but he could still feel that the pain on that injury was different.
The doctor that came to visit him was a strange man. He was very short
and he smelled oddly. Herman found him to be more kind than most of the
guards. He could see that the doctor was not someone who fought. His head
was big, like it had grown from thinking a lot. He carried a lot of papers
around with him and wrote things down when he spoke to Herman.
Sometimes the doctor just sat in the room with Herman. He sat across
from him and asked him questions about what he was thinking about.
Herman didn’t have much to say to him but somehow the doctor seemed to
persist with the meetings and didn’t seem to care.
There was another guy that helped Herman eat his food for a few days.
They gave him a milkshake in a paper carton that he liked a lot. It was
chocolate flavoured.
He told the doctor about it. And to his surprise the doctor started to
bring him one when he would see him. Herman loved getting those
milkshakes. He was happy to try the other types. They had vanilla and
strawberry as well. They came with a straw that was in some packing and
glued to the carton. The straw has a weird part on it that made it go in any
direction. Herman thought that part of the straw was very funny for some
reason. And he told the doctor that.
The doctor smiled when he said that and for some reason Herman
laughed when he was talking about that part of the straw. Herman laughed
in a way that seemed like he couldn’t even control. It was good to laugh but
it also caused him a lot of pain to do so.
Herman told the doctor about Adam. He said that he used to have a friend named Adam a long time ago. But that guy had stopped being his
friend. The doctor asked him why and Herman didn’t have a good idea as to
why it was. He just stopped wanting to talk to him one day.
Herman explained that this new Adam was alright though. The doctor
asked him if he was an acceptable substitute and Herman smiled and said
that yes he was.
“Good,” said the doctor.
The nurse explained to Herman that they were going to start lowering
his pain medication. He was healing well and soon he would go back to his
cell.
He had a meeting with the doctor again. It was ordinary until the end of
the meeting when the doctor said something that made Herman realize that
it would be their last meeting.
Herman felt very sad to hear that. His eyes watered and he did cry some.
He felt very strange about doing that. He didn’t know why he felt that upset
about this weird old doctor who he barely knew. It was probably because he
was getting off the medication and that he laughed so much about that
straw.
The doctor gave Herman a handshake at the end of the visit. He said,
“Herman, sincerely, I wish you the best of luck, in whatever you do.”
Herman appreciated hearing that from the doctor and he believed that
he meant it.
And at the end of day Herman was given back blue shirt and blue pants
and they put handcuffs on him and walked him back to his cell.
For a moment he felt okay. But it didn’t take long before everything
came back to him. He knew that he was going to have to fight again. And he
had to get back to that damn laundry fan again.
He hopped up and down. He did his push ups and his sit ups. He
practiced his punches. He ate as much food as he could. Whenever he was
out of the cell he always paid attention to exactly who was around. He made
sure he knew where every exit was. He wasn’t going to get his ass kicked again.
When he was doing his laundry service in the basement he paid very
close attention to the inside of the machine drum. He was becoming curious
about climbing into it and seeing if there was a way to break it open or at
least move the machine out of the way and see what was behind it. But he
couldn’t go in because then the door could get shut and the other guys
could turn on the machine and send him spinning into oblivion.
There was a certain frame on the wall behind the machine that he could
see had screws on it that could bolt on and off.
When he could he walked towards them and tried to loosen them. He
couldn’t open it with just his fingers. He would need some kind of tool to
crank it open but he hadn’t found it yet.
He was happy to see Adam again. Adam didn’t ask him where he had
been. He was too busy talking about eating frogs. Herman had no idea
where he got those ideas from. But he thought it was a funny thing for a
person to be obsessed by.
When Herman came back again those same guys came and bothered
him. This didn’t care even care that Adam was with him. It seemed like they
weren’t there to attack him again. Instead they were thought they would just
ask them. Did they want to join up with them or not?
Herman didn’t want to say a damn thing to those guys. It was tough to
look at them and not want to try to kill them after how bad they kicked his
ass. But it was beyond anger. It was just fear. He was still in a decent
amount of pain and there was no beating them at this point. He knew that
Adam might put up a good fight, but even then he didn’t want to see him
get hurt. And then it would just be one of him versus six of them. He was
more worried about Adam getting hurt than him at this point.
Herman told them to leave Adam out of it. They laughed at him when
he said that. He could tell that they didn’t take him seriously. Herman
agreed then. Fine.
“What do you want us to do?”
“We’ll come to you when we need you.”HERMAN’S JAIL 105
“Fine,” said Herman.
“Looking forward to doing business with you,” they said to Herman.
He took off and made sure that Adam came with him and didn’t doddle
behind him.
“You hear all that?” Herman asked Adam.
Adam was going on about how an earthquake came and destroyed a
piece of lasagna that his uncle found in the garbage.
“Did you hear all of that or not man?” Herman asked him. He was angry.
Adam was talking faster and making less and less sense. Herman was
getting frustrated by him.
“Man, these guys aren’t here to fuck around. I don’t know what they’re
plan is or what they want us to do but I can tell you it isn’t going to be
good for either of us. They got some plan going and I don’t know what it is.
So we need to be ready. Ok? So you watch where you go. When you’re
getting your lunch, when you’re in the shower and when you’re sleeping.
You need to watch your every move.”
Adam was looking up at the clouds and not paying attention to what
Herman was saying. Adam paced in circles and kept muttering about some
dinner he ate a long time ago.
“Man! Fuckin listen to what I’m saying,” Herman was getting angry at
the guy. “You got to listen to me or else we’re going to get our asses kicked
alright?” Herman kicked the dirt repeatedly until a big chunk ripped off.
Herman picked it up and tossed it at Adam.
Adam laughed when he did that and then Adam ripped out a big chunk
himself and tossed it high into the air. It spun out of control and blasted
apart when it hit the ground. Adam laughed very hard when that happened.
And then he did it again. He picked up an even bigger piece and tossed it at
Herman and laughed his ass off. And then he picked up another piece and
laughed more. Tossing the dirt chunks into the air.
“Man, stop it,” Herman said. He could see that the guards were watching
them and the other people saw them too. The guards were coming over.

Herman said, “stop it man, stop,” but he wasn’t listening.
Herman wanted to take off and leave him there. He didn’t want to deal
with the guard’s again. But he wasn’t going to abandon his friend. He just
didn’t have the heart. It was his fault he was tossing the dirt up. He did it
first and Adam was just copying him and doing it as a joke.
Herman walked up to the guards. He said, “he’ll stop, it’s okay.”
The guards weren’t going to listen to Herman. He yelled to him, “Adam!
Stop!” One of the guards took his stick and hit Adam on the back of the
head.
It was very difficult for Herman to see that. He wanted to go up and
stop them but he knew he couldn’t do anything about it. It took everything
he had not to go up and try to fight them. And he stood there for a bit and
they hit him and he began to weep and spoke about the lasagna that he ate
as a boy. For the first time Herman looked at Adam and wondered what he
could have done to have ended up in this place. And in that moment
Herman, without even realizing he’d made the decision went after those
guards. And like he thought, he didn’t stand a damn chance against them.
Even if he wasn’t all fucked up from getting his ass kicked it wouldn’t have
made a damn difference.
He still tried. And he put his hand around one of the guard’s neck and
choked him out with all that he had left in him. And he watched the look
on the guard’s face become desperate. He knew that look. He knew the way
that a man looked when the life was leaving him. And it didn’t stop him.
Herman felt the rage take hold of him and his strength returned. He knew
that he wasn’t going to stop until the lights went out in this guy’s eyes but
then he felt a stick around his neck. Another guard took him and pinned his
face into the dirt. He didn’t try to resist. His cheek was against the dirt and
he looked at Adam who got one good swing against one of the guard’s
before they got him down into the dirt also.
Herman was back in the room he began in. It was quiet, for what felt
like the first time in a long time. The food would come from a metal slot in the door. He was happy to eat it in peace.
He thought about that doctor and he thought about the library guard. He
thought about Paul and he thought about Sean. He thought about Adam and
he thought about Ms. Eerie. And then he thought of himself. He tried to
think of who he was. It was difficult to see it.
He thought of how isolated he felt from the others. For the most part.
Except for those few. But it seemed that even now, at the end of the day, it
was him alone, against himself. And it was him alone with himself as his
only ally. He wanted to destroy himself and he wanted to survive.
He thought of himself looking outside of the window at the school and
looking towards the road to where the cars were. He thought of the idea he
had of the destroyed cars and how he could work and fix them up. He tried
to hold on to the meaning of that but it wasn’t as strong as it once was to
him. Somehow it had faded.
He sat alone for a few days and he stayed calm for the most part. He
thought of that air vent. Regardless of how he felt, his thoughts seemed
always to return to it.
He knew that those guys were going to keep coming for him. And he
didn’t know what their plan was. He wanted it to go away but he knew that
it wouldn’t. He knew that he couldn’t beat them by fighting them. It would
have to be something else.
He looked at the peas and the carrots that were on his plate. He thought
of when he tried to make a chess game out of the vegetables. He would
make a plan. He would figure out what those guys plan was for him and
whatever it was. He would use it as a way of getting into the vent and
getting the hell out of there.
He was unhappy to return to his cell. But he had a feeling that he
wouldn’t be staying there long. So he could handle it.
That crazy bastard from the other side who had the copy of Moby Dick
sat at the table with him. There was no sign of Adam. Herman asked the
crazy guy if he knew where Adam was.
‘‘I don't know where that fucking guy is," he said.HERMAN’S JAIL 108
The first day back Herman went to the vent. He looked around the
corner in an area he hadn’t quite been to before and saw that the vent
actually went a lot higher up than he had thought. It was almost a four story
jump down from where the vent exhaust came out.
Even if he found a way to climb up it, and then open it up, he would
have to jump onto the top of the fence and then who knows what was on
the other side. Probably not much to break his fall.
It wasn’t ideal by any means. But it was a start.
He thought of being in that vent and imagined what it would be like to
climb up it. If he lost his grip he would fall down and probably get killed.
He also didn’t know what it would be like with the exhaust coming out of
it.
But he did think of something. If the laundry machines were off, then
maybe the air wouldn’t coming out in that strong of a way.
When he returned to laundry duty none of the other guys spoke to him.
He was excited to work there now. He had begun to like to do some kind of
activity that wasn’t just sitting around. But moreso, he was going to figure
out a way to break those damn laundry machines so badly that no one
could turn them on for as long as possible.
He looked inside of them and could see all of the little screws of how
the drum was connected to the machine. He thought of cutting the chords.
But he wasn’t sure that would work either. And he didn’t have anything
sharp enough that he could use. He thought of finding a way to overflow
them so full of soap that they got wrecked. But that might not destroy it. It
wasn’t the worst idea. There was the fan in the back of the laundry
machine. Maybe if he continued to pour soup into it then it might get
wrecked. And if he poured water into the back of the machine, while it was
on. Maybe it would catch the electricity and be like a toaster in a bathtub.
Maybe he could electricute the damn thing.
He went back to his cell and continued to think of it. He thought that
maybe he could start putting soap inside of the backs of all the machines.

Bit by bit. So that they would build up more and more. And then eventually,
maybe, when he did pour water on them, they would foam up and get really
messed up. The problem with pouring the water on the back of them is that
some guard or one of the other bastards might see him do it. He would
stick with the soap idea until he thought of something better.
He thought about it and imagined all of the laundry machines
overflowing with bubbles and them electricuting everywhere. He was lying
in his bed looking up at the ceiling and he laughed hard. Laughing like that,
he felt like he was Paul. It was easy to remember Paul when he laughed like
that.
He hadn’t seen Adam for a while. He asked the guy with the library cart
about him and he didn’t seem to know either.
During the outdoor time Herman looked on the other end of the
building. There was another fan that exit to a different point of the wall. He
didn’t know where it was leading to but it seemed like there was less
exhaust coming from it and he saw that the angle of the fan was less steep.
When the library cart guy came back he called Herman over.
“Hey man,” he said.
“Hey,” said Herman.
“Your friend.”
“Yah.”
“He got moved.”
“Where?”
“I don’t know. But he isn’t here anymore.”
“Why not?”
“He’s special needs or something.”
“What’s that?”
“Because man.”
“Well is he okay?”
“I don’t know man. But that’s what I could find out.”
“Did you see him?”
“No.” 
“Well can I see him?”
“Man. I don’t know. Sorry.”
He kept pushing the cart down the hall.
Herman felt himself return to a way he hadn’t felt in a little while.
Somehow a wave of hopelessness overtook him and he wasn’t thinking
about the laundry machines. He looked at the ceiling and thought that
maybe he was wrong. Maybe he should get used to this place after all.
He was so annoyed by Adam when he first met him. He couldn’t believe
how crazy he was. He was one of the weirdest guys that he had ever known.
He was so weird that it made him feel like he wasn’t weird at all. That
meant a lot to Herman. Usually he felt very separated from the other people
that were around but he knew that he was less different than them than
Adam was. He knew that Adam saw the world a lot differently than anyone.
And no matter what, if Adam was around, he would follow Herman. And he
would talk about whatever the hell he was thinking. He didn’t know that
that time tossing dirt around would have been the last time he would have
seen him. If he did maybe he would have enjoyed it more. But that’s how it
went.
It was different than Paul. Somehow he knew Paul knew what he was
doing and he knew that Paul was dead. Adam wasn’t dead but it felt like he
was in a way. Herman didn’t know if he would even remember him if he
saw him again.
Herman lay in his bed and stared at the cieling and it seemed like all of
that momentum that he had built up to getting out of this place was gone.
He knew that now, without Adam there, he should have even more of a
reason to leave, but he didn’t. Now he just wanted to lay in the bed and do
nothing. He didn’t want to go eat and he didn’t want to go outside. He
wasn’t angry or wanting to fight anyone either.
He looked into the field and saw where him and Adam ripped all that
dirt out from before. It was a decent chunk. No one had done anything to
fix it up. In a way Herman thought that he should go over there and do something about it but he didn’t.
He still kept his eye out for those guys that kicked his ass but they didn’t
seem to care about him anymore. Before, he was so sure that they would
come back and find a way to mess with him. It seemed inevitable but now
he was doubting they wanted anything to do with him.
There was a side of him that thought that maybe he could trick them
into something anyways. He thought of stealing that key from the guard
after all. And then giving it to them. If they got caught for trying to sneak
out then he could make his way out the back and no one would be paying
attention. That meant he would have to steal the key from the guard. And
even if he did that, which he knew would be very difficult and almost
impossible, but even if he was able to do that, who knows what they would
do with those keys. He didn’t know enough about it. It all seemed pointless
now anyway.
He’d spent enough time looking at every single lock and handle that he
could find and trying to make sense of the keys but it didn’t seem to matter.
All of the doors had an electronic lock on them as well. Unless he could lie
to them. And tell them that he found a way to shut them off.
But he didn’t even want to do that anymore. Even if he could. It just all
seemed pointless. He had a cup of water that he drank. And he sipped it and
thought that was the best thing he could do. Was just have the water. He
didn’t want to eat any food or do anything except drink the water. Even the
water one day would become an enemy. He imagined it turning to fire and
burning his insides. And so he put the cup down and stopped drinking that
water also.
He felt bad about himself. He felt rejected by those guys. That they
didn’t need him for anything. He felt like he wasn’t good enough. Maybe
they just wanted to test him and see if he was a good enough fighter to join
their team but they decided that he wasn’t and so they didn’t even care
about kicking his ass again. He was nothing to them.
Without Adam he was alone again and he didn’t feel like being alone again.
He was thinking of going over and talking to them. Maybe if he just
hung around with them or near them and just stuck around even if they
kicked his ass again at least he wouldn’t have to be on his own.
He walked towards them. Slow enough that they wouldn’t suspect that
he was up to anything.
He doddled around the wall, looking at the ground, for something.
Money perhaps. The ground was dirt and the grass was dead. He walked up
to them. And stood there and said, “you guys are fags.”
None of them said anything. They were stone faced and looked at the
boss. He stared at Herman. And then he laughed. And then the rest of them
laughed. And they weren’t laughing at him. They thought what he said was
hilarious.
After they kicked his ass, it was the most unexpected and bold thing he
could do. And the truth is he didn’t even know why he did that. He didn’t
think about saying that. It just came out of his mouth for no reason. He
watched them laugh and he was confused at first. He thought he was going
to get killed. And then he laughed too.
The boss came up to him and offered his hand. He said, “what up man,
I’m Carl.” Herman shook his hand.
“Herman,” he said.
“Herman, good to meet you bro.”
He stood with them. They stood around looking at the guys playing
basketball. At one point they rolled dice and traded some money around.
One of the guys had a cigarette that two of them shared. They offered it to
Herman. He didn’t take the cigarette.
“Good choice,” said Carl, “smokings for fuckin sissy ass mother fuckers.”
“Who like suckin dick!” one of the other guys said. That was Bryan. He
had a big forehead and was tall. He liked chirping in catch phrases like that.
He wasn’t tough at all but he had a big mouth.
For some reason he kept standing beside Herman.
Herman knew that he was dumb for hanging out with these guys. But in a way he was too scared to leave because he didn’t know what they would
do to him if he did. In another way it felt a certain way to be apart of the
group. He felt like it gave him some power. Most of the time they just stood
around and dissed other guys in the field.
They would get angry at each other but Carl had a way of keeping them
in line.
Herman would go hang around with them when he was outside. There
was something about it that made him think less about what had been going
on. It was like his mind just went numb and he stopped having his own
thoughts.
He still would look at the laundry machines and the vent but he didn’t
feel like it was as much of a rush as it was before.
Carl came up to him one day and said, “Herman, let me talk to you.”
They walked away from the others. One of the guys followed some distance
behind. He was always with Carl and was his main gaurd. Herman
remembered how hard that guy hit him when he got his ass kicked and if
there was one guy he didn’t want to take on again it was him.
Carl was a lot older than Herman. He was older than Sean and Paul. He
was probably almost eighteen.
Carl asked Herman about his past. He asked him where he grew up and
where he went to school. He asked him how he ended up here. But Herman
barely told him anything. Carl didn’t push. He could see that Herman didn’t
want to talk about any of that. All he told him what was school he went to.
He didn’t tell Carl about the lunch room gaurd. He didn’t tell them about
Paul or Sean and about how he tried to escape the home. It seemed like
more than anything, Carl was interested in Adam. He didn’t know that
Adam had been transferred. And he seemed dissapointed in that.
Herman got the impression that Carl was using him to get to Adam. He
saw how strong Adam was and he wanted to use that to his advantage. Carl
thanked Herman for being with them. He said that he appreciated having
him on the team. And he was sure that they would do great things together.
They slowly walked back to be with the group. Carl stood and watched the basketball players. Herman looked at him and saw that his eyes were dead and he in fact was not watching the basketball players at all. He was staring off into oblivion.

He began to eat lunch with those guys. He sat at the end of the table
with Bryan. Herman was the smallest guy of the bunch and Bryan was
probably the tallest. During lunch at one point a guy came over and sat at their table. He was from one of the rival groups. He didn’t say anything. He just sat there and ate. Everyone was dead quiet. Carl nodded at one of the guys and as soon as he did they yanked him by the back of the neck and tossed him at the table behind them.
No fight broke out. The guy just went back to his group. But Herman
could see that the leader of that group had sent him over to do exactly what
he did. The other leader looked at Carl. And Carl did not look at him.
Herman watched Carl. Until Carl looked up at him and said, “what?”
“Nothing,” said Herman.
“You got something to say mother fucker?”
Herman didn’t say anything. He felt the fear of hell wash over him.
Herman thought about that moment all night and barely slept. He felt
very angry that Carl asked him that question. He thought of all the different
answers that he could have had. What he should have said. Herman knew
that he wasn’t the best at talking for the most part. He didn’t like doing it
and he didn’t want to. Usually if someone had talked to him like that he
would have kicked their ass or took off. But in this case. He had nowhere to
go.
He lay in bed and looked at the ceiling and remembered the bedsprings.
He closed his eyes and imagined them and began to fall asleep.
He dreamt that night that there was a horse inside of the laundry
machine and it was kicking the drum and making such a racket and
everyone was screaming because they couldn’t figure out where it was
coming from. But Herman knew. He wasn’t going to tell them. He knew because he was the one that put the horse inside of the laundry machine. And in the dream Herman took the horse out out of the laundry
machine and tried to throw it overtop of the wall. But he wasn’t strong enough. He wasn’t able to launch it over. He could tell everyone was after
him again. He was going to have to kill all of them if they came near him
but he didn’t want kill anyone again. He just wanted to get the horse over
the wall. But they were coming for him. And the horse had died.
Herman woke up. It was the middle of the night and he felt how fast his
heart beat. He tried to breathe calmly. His thoughts moved very fast. The
longer he waited there, he began to move his hand in the way he used to
when he practiced stealing the wallet from the library gaurd. He
remembered how it was done.
He thought of where the keys were on the night guard. And what kind
of movement it would take to get those keys from him.
Herman sat at the table with Carl and those guys. He kept his mouth
shut for the most part. He stood there with the other guys and kept
listening to what they were saying.
One of the guys came up to Herman and two other guys. He explained
to them that they were going to need to fight some guys soon. They were
from a different group. One of the guys asked what they were going to kick
their ass for but he told him to shut the fuck up.
Herman didn’t know who the guys were and he didn’t want to kick their
asses or get in any fights. It seemed like a waste of time at this point. They
were going to do it during the morning shower. They just had to choke
them out and tell them to tell Eliezer that to call of the negotiation with
Kline. Herman had no idea who those guys were and he knew he wasn’t
going to remember their names so he hoped the other guys would.
Herman thought about not doing it. And maybe he wouldn’t. Maybe he
just wouldn’t show up. Maybe he would go there and kick the guys asses
that were supposed to be on his side. He didn’t care either way. It was all
nonsense to him. He needed to get the key and he needed to get the hell out of this place once and for all.
When they were standing outside Carl went up to him and asked him
how he was feeling about the job.
“How so?” Herman asked.
“You got second thoughts about it?”
Herman looked at him. It was like he could read his thoughts. He didn’t
say anything.
“You don’t want to do it?” Carl asked him.
Herman still didn’t say anything.
“You don’t want to do it, you don’t have to do it. We’ll get someone else,
you just let me know, alright?” Carl patted Herman on the back and walked
away.
Herman was confused by that. Now that Carl said that he didn’t have to
do it, immediatley he wanted to do it. He didn’t want to miss out on it now.
He stood with the other guys. And it showed everyone that he was going to
be apart of the team.
In the evening he lay in his bed and waited until he fell asleep but he
didn’t. He just stared at the ceiling. He didn’t know why he couldn’t sleep. It
was perhaps that he knew he was moving away from himself. He remebered
that gap between himself that he used to consider when he did drugs with
Paul and this was similar to that but it felt pathetic in its own way. He could
have been anyone. Carl had a way of making him think that he was useful.
And that if he worked he could be the best of the group. But he made
everyone do that. Herman thought about it. He was very tired but he wasn’t
sleeping.
In the morning he walked towards the showers with the others. The
guys who he was supposed to fight were showering. They were talking in
some language that Herman didn’t understand. He didn’t know where they
were from. He thought they were French or African or something like that.
One of the guys from his side grunted and Herman could see he was getting
ready to fight. He took deep breaths and then he went into the shower. He squeezed the guy’s neck along his elbow and choked him out so that he
couldn’t yell for his buddy. Herman watched the guy choke him out. He
watched his legs flail and slip on the tiles. The guy couldn’t even fight back.
The next guy went into the next shower. He punched the guy right in the
head. He yelled to the next guys. They came running out of the showers and
saw Herman. There were two of the other guys, and the guys Herman came
in with were busy choking out the two guys in the showers.
Herman looked at the two guys that ran out. He didn’t even care to try
to fight them. They didn’t even think he was part of their team. Herman just
stood their dumbly. The guys yelled at him and asked him what the fuck he
was doing. He didn’t respond.
He just left the showers. Those two French African guys went and
kicked those guys asses. Now it was four on two and they were going to
win. Herman didn’t care. He just walked away. He was done with Carl and
those guys.
Herman went in line to get his lunch. He stood there with the tray. They
were serving a beans and sausages and he didn’t mind that. He took his
meal and he sat where he used to sit with Adam. He saw that Carl was
sitting with the others. The guys who he left hanging in the showers were
not there. He figured they got their ass kicked badly and were probably sent
down in delta block or something like that.
Carl and him made eye contact for a moment. Herman did not break it
first. Carl nodded. He could see that Herman wasn’t going to deal with him
any longer.
Herman was in the laundry room and he knew he was quite angry and
the thoughts had begun to rush into his mind about whether or not he was
going to have to fight again.
He decided now that he could speak to no one. It was done. At this
point, every friend he ever made, or even guys that he didn’t like that much,
if he talked to them it ended in some way that he hated and he was through
with it. He was going to look out for himself at every corner. He was going to make sure he got what he needed to not have to live a shit existence anymore and that anyone that messed with him again was going to be destroyed. He wasn’t going to lose, even if Carl came after him. Even if it was him versus every single one of Carl’s guys again, like that first time, he would go toe to toe and he would destroy them. He wasn’t going to live like this anymore.
He would steal the key from the corridor gaurd and he would kill him if he had to. He would take the key and he would open up any door he needed until he got the hell out of there. He would use that key to go into the laundry room and trash the machine and climb into the vent and then he would make his way out of there. He had another idea from when he was outside. Going through the vent was one way, but if he could get onto the roof and get on top of the vent and then go down to the wall and jump off to the other side, then he could make it out of there. He lay in the bed and he imagined getting up there. He thought of everything he knew about the building and how there was nowhere to hide. He didn’t know what the keys would offer him but he wasn’t going to be able to plan everything. As soon as he stole the keys he would start with the plan. He hoped that the keys worked in the way he needed them to but he couldn’t be sure. He had begun to think of it more and he knew there were the normal
keys but there was also the keycard that he watched the guards use on some
of the doorways. That was the one that he needed. Some of the guards had
them on their belts. They were hanging onto a wire. He didn’t know how
the hell he would be able to get it off of them. But that would help a lot.
He was getting frustrated and worked up thinking about all of the
different options. But he thought back to himself, back when he was at the
school building, and how he couldn’t escape then, but he would now. And
there was no questioning that.
He woke up the next morning, his stomach felt like it was burning. He
stood in his cell and started doing his excersizes. He thought of Carl and all of those guys. He thought of how well he would kick their asses if they even
dared come near him.
During breakfast he looked at them. He ate his potatoes and he walked
as close to their table as he wanted and none of them made eye contact with
him. He wasn’t scared of them anymore. He still didn’t see those guys from
the shower. He saw the French African guys and they didn’t say anything.
He could see that they knew he was there and he didn’t kick their asses in
the end. He walked away.
He went outside and he looked at the roof of the building. It was
different than he remembered it when he was in his bed. He could see there
was a door that lead to the top of the building. And from there he could get
higher up by climbing up a small ladder that was built into the concrete. He
could climb up that and go along the roof. And then from there he could
jump onto the vent. If he fell, he was dead. There was no where to catch
and there was no where to land except on the gravel below. But if he didn’t
fall then he could make it to the wall. He could see that the vent jutted out
just enough that he could take a running start to make sure that his jump
was going to be good enough to make it.
He looked at the guard tower. It was in perfect view of the top of that
vent. He knew that they had rifles there. If they shot him and killed him
then that was that. There wasn’t much he could do about that. They would
have to have better aim than his ability to run.
After he made the jump he would be ontop of the wall. It looked like the
wall was wide enough that he could fall on it and tumble across. He didn’t
have to land that well. He was probably going to scrape himself up pretty
bad after this one. But he’d come back from worse. He wasn’t worried about
that.
He was becoming excited looking at that wall. And once he was on there
he would have to see what was on the other side. He saw that he could also
run across it and get to the front gate where the wall turned into wire. He
could climb down there and run out the front entrance if he had to.
Carl came to Herman and they walked together. Herman was nervous but used his anger to remain calm around him. Carl put his arm around
Herman as they walked. Herman was confused by Carl. He seemed like a
kind person and when he talked it was hard not to believe what he was
saying. Herman wanted like and he wanted to trust him but he knew that he
couldn’t. Not if he was going to get out of there like he wanted to.
“I can see you’re up to something,” Carl said.
But Herman wasn’t going to tell him anything.
“If you were someone else, kid, I would snap your neck like a turkey
right here and now. But I’ll be honest with you. There’s something about
you. I see a version of myself in you. If I was tougher. If I had principles. If
I could stand up on my own. But I don’t. You see. I’ve got in interest in
people. I care what people think and I care about controlling them. I got to
be ahead of them or they win. And that’s what it is for me. I want to be on
the top of the pyramid. I’m the boss no matter what. That’s the reason I
ended here and that’s who I’ll be while I’m here, and when I get out I’ll get
back on top again. That’s what I give a fuck about. But you kid. I can see
that you don’t give two shits about that do you? You don’t need no one but
yourself. Isn’t that right?”
Herman looked at him. He couldn’t tell if Carl could tell if that was his
weakness or not. He couldn’t see if Carl was just saying that to manipulate
him. To try to get him to join him again.
“What do you want from me?” Herman asked him.
Carl took his hand off of Herman’s shoulder.
Carl smiled somewhat. He nodded. They stopped walking. Herman saw
the others. They were standing around doing nothing. A couple of them
were keeping an eye on them.
“Look at me,” Carl said.
Herman did so.
“Don’t worry about them, this is just you and me talking here.”
Herman didn’t say anything about that.
“They’re a bunch of boneheads you know that right?”
Herman didn’t respond.
“Some more than others, but in the real world man, I can introduce you
to some guys that really can make things happen.”
Herman felt bad for the other guys when he said that. He could see that
they didn’t think they were like he thought. They thought they were doing a
good job.
“What, you’re feeling bad for those mother fuckers? Come on.”
Herman was getting confused, it was like Carl could see his thoughts.
“Giving a shit for them, for anyone for that matter, Herman, that’s
what’s going to bring you down. You’ll lose your focus. Right? You know
that. I don’t have to tell you that do I?”
“No,” said Herman.
“You didn’t do what I asked you to kid, and you know what? Well like I
said, if you were someone else I would have snapped your neck but, you’ve
got a way about you. And somehow, you leaving my guys hanging like that,
that took more balls than going into the fight. You know why?”
“Why?”
“Because that meant you weren’t scared of them and it meant you
weren’t scared of me.”
Herman nodded.
“So what is it then, Herman, what do you want? If you could have
anything what would it be? Girls, drugs, cars, power? You name it.”
Herman looked at him.
“It’s got to be something kid, come on.”
“You got cars?”
“Ha! Cars eh? You like cars?”
Herman shrugged and Carl laughed, “cars. The boy likes cars does he.
My uncle ran an auto shop. Colorcoral Auto Repair, you know the place?”
Herman shrugged again.
“Cars eh? You’re a good kid aren’t you?”
Herman was confused by this guy.
“Tell you what, you go into Colorcoral Auto Repair one day, you tell
them you’re a friend of mine, tell them I scooped you out of delta block,
and they’ll help you out, alright?”
Herman appreciated hearing that.
“You work there?” Herman asked him.
“Did I work there?” Carl laughed again, “Herman, I grew up there, that
was my uncle’s shop. I know that place better than my own ass.”
Herman nodded.
“So I bet you’re wondering then,” said Carl.
“Wondering what?”
“How well does this guy know his own ass?”
Herman did laugh at that. Carl smiled at him.
They had walked back to where the rest of the guys were. Herman stood
with them for a bit. They huddled around and tried to keep warm. And for
a moment Herman felt like maybe he was wrong about Carl and the guys.
Maybe he was one of them. He saw Carl talking to some of the other guys.
Carl was looking really angry about something one of them told him.
And Herman saw the steam coming from the vent on the other side of
the building. He walked away from them. Carl saw him leave from the
corner of his eye. And Herman looked at him for a moment. But then he
looked away and he walked away from all of those guys.
He went to the hallway and he saw the guard that had the key. He
looked at his belt. He saw where the key was. There was no stealing it from
him without him knowing. The guard was looking right at him. Instead
Herman took the batton off the guard’s belt and swung it across his face.
The guard fell out of his damn chair and onto the ground. Herman yanked
the keys away from him but they were attached to that wire and he couldn’t
get it to come off. He hit the guard again. He unclipped the peice that
attached the wire from the guard’s belt loop and then ran down the hallway.
He used the key card to open the door at the end of the way. He was in the
stairwell. He ran up as fast as he could. He peaked into the through the glass
in the doorway of the next floor. He saw people coming in from the outside break. They were going back to their cells. He ran upward to the next
staircase and he could see that there was still one more on top of him. The
alarm sounded and a white light flashed from every level. He used the
keycard to open the door.
It was a thin corridor and there was no one there. The alarm was much
quieter. The light still flashed but it didn’t make the same noise.
He crept down the way and looked into the first room that he saw.
There was a woman sitting behind a typewriter. She looked frustrated. She
didn’t see him. She sat with a big file cabinet and there were two phones on
the desk infront of her.
Herman went to the next room, it was closed and locked. He ran down
to the end of the hall and saw that there was an exit that led to a fire escape
outside.
He stood on the fire escape and looked down. He was as high up as he’d
ever been. His stomach turned and he was as scared as he ever was in his
entire life.
He froze and for some moments he felt like he didn’t exist. There was a
vast distance between him and the wall. He remembered what was between
him and himself when he had taken all of those drugs with Paul. And it felt
like here it was in front of him. And in that moment he knew exactly how
big it was, there was a limit to it, and he knew that limit. And so he could
move forward, towards it.
He climbed up the fire escape and went onto the roof. He looked
downward, towards the field, where they played basketball, where he stood
all of those days wtih Carl and he could see where him and Adam dug out
the dirt. It was like an asteroid came from space and blew a hole into the
ground.
He saw the guards rushing and hurrying around the area, the sirens
blazing. They didn’t know where he was.
There was a doorway on the rooftop where he was. He didn’t know
where it lead to but he could imagine that a gaurd was going to burst through it at any moment.
He was the steam coming out of the vent like he thought. He ran
towards it and climbed up onto it.
He was higher up now that he was before. He tried to measure that
vastness against what he had known but this seemed bigger than what he
had known.
The steam from the vent came upward towards him and it made the air
thick and hot to breathe. He looked back at the door. There were no gaurds
there yet.
He didn’t have much space to run. It looked like it would have been a lot
more from when he looked at the vent from the field. But this was the only
chance he would have. He thought of being in the school, when he got
gravel stuck inside of his palm and when that guy Vova kicked his ass and
threw him into the water fountain. He thought of how he wanted Mrs.
Eerie to think that he wasn’t a bad student and he thought of tossing that
food tray in the cafeteria and the hollow look on that guard’s face when he
punctured through his ribcage with that pencil. He remembered the bed
springs that he used to stare at every night and how he looked at them so
much they took on a new shape that had burned into his mind. He thought
of eating his lunch with Sean and Paul and laughing with those guys and he
thought of himself. The last time he tried to escape a place like this. And
how he went back to get that book and he got busted for it. He thought of
the fights he had won and the fights he had lost and how badly he had tried
to fight for his life in all of those cases and it didn’t matter if the result of
the fight because here he was. He wasn’t going back. This was it.
He ran across the vent and jumped through the air, his arms flailing and
his body floating like some injured bird. He fell downward onto the next
vent and he almost fell off the side of it. He held on for his dear fucking life,
but his hand was slipping farther and he did slip and the metal was hot and
skid along his arm but he grabbed onto the grate and he held on. The steam
from the fan made it difficult to hold on but he did. He climbed back onto that vent. He looked downward and he didn’t see anyone below him. They
were looking on the other side.
They didn’t even know he was there. He stood up and looked
everywhere. He was safe. The drop below him was so far he felt sick just
looking at it. He was scared out of his damn mind.
He looked towards the wall. There was barbed wire ontop of it. He was
going to have to grab into it, there was no way around it. He couldn’t climb
back up to the roof even if he wanted to.
He hopped up and down. Getting ready to make the jump. He went to
the end of the vent and did a practice run to get the feel for it. He did a
second practice run. He looked back at the roof. He could hear some gaurds
up there. It was now or never. They’d probably shoot him dead at this point.
He went to the end of the vent and he bolted towards the wall, he leapt
through the air and he thought of nothing. Until he landed on the wire and
grabbed with his hands and felt a peircing worse than he had ever known.
Both of his hands felt like they’d been sliced in two, his chest and leg and
face had all gotten slashed by the barbed wire. He was as still as possible. He
could even turn back to see if there were any guards there.
He looked at the other side. Downwards. He got out of the wire, cutting
himself along the way. Below him were only bushes and a highway. He
rolled off the side and fell downward.
Herman lay in the bushes for a moment. And then he jumped upward.
And pushed himself through.
There was the highway. The cars sped by very fast. A giant semi truck.
Herman was scared and exhilerated.
He had not felt such a sense of releif and excitement in his entire life. He
waited until there was a break in the traffic and he ran into the road. He
tried to get across but another truck was coming and it couldn’t see him.
The truck was damn close to hitting him. He felt the air try to blow him
over with the truck. He rushed past the road and almost got hit again, but
this truck slammed blasted its horn and screached on the brakes. He ran infront of the truck and jumped to the other side of the road.
He looked back at the building. He could still see the steam coming out
of the vent from the other side of the wall.
Herman smiled and jumped in the air and screamed, “I did it! I fucking
did it man!”
He rushed into the tall grass and went as far as he could. He knew that
they would come looking for him.
The grass didn’t seem to lead anywhere but towards more grass. He kept
walking and his leg was starting to hurt. He could feel that it was getting
very sore from being cut on the wire and from landing on it from the jump.
His entire body was very sore and the cuts where stinging.
He had walked far enough that he didn’t see the building anymore. But
now he didn’t see anything in any direction. He was hungry and cold and it
was becoming night time.
He kept walking. It took all of the energy he had. He found that his
mind would go in spurts of desperatley wanting to give up and then he
would forget about it for a while.
He thought about going back to the road. At least there were other
people there, maybe one of the cars or trucks could help him. But the last
thing he could let himself do is go back to the road. Then they would find
him and he’d never get out again.
He felt a strong sense that they were coming after him. Or that someone
would. He wanted to get rid of his clothes but it would be too cold to do so.
And eventually he found a big house in the horizon. He went towards it
and there was a dog there.
The dog barked at him and he lay in the grass and slept under the deck
for some hours. But it became too cold and he woke up. There was frost in
the grass and he was very sore. He saw the dog was close to him.
It was a big dog, he had dark fur and was probably taller than Herman if
it stood up. The dog growled at him when he moved. But he could see that
the dog wasn’t going to hurt him.
Herman limped to the back of the house. He looked in the windows and he didn’t see anyone there.
There was a shed in the back but it was locked. Herman tried to break
off the lock but he wasn’t able to.
The sun had come up some and he saw that there was an old truck
parked infront of the house. The dog kept following him around.
He knocked on the front door as loud as he could. He was desperate to
go inside. He opened the door.
The dog ran in behind him. The dog ran up and down the stairs and
barked and ran around every room. The dog was very happy to be there.
Herman saw a blanket on the couch and went right towards it. He put
the blanket ontop of himself and he sat there and became warmer.
He closed his eyes and dosed off for some time. Eventually he woke up
again. He went to the kitchen and found a cup. He poured himself a glass of
water and he drank it. He poured another glass and drank that too.
He went back on the couch and slept more. The house was still cold but
the sun heated it up a little bit more. He limped back across the room, his
body was sore but he had felt worse before.
Herman lay on the couch and the dog lay on the chair across from him.
The dog curled up into a ball and slept also.
Herman slept there for a long time.
He kept going to the fridge and looking at the sauces and the eggs.
There were some other weird things and he didn’t know what they were
exactly.
He looked in the cupboard and found a box of crackers that he loved
eating.
He couldn’t believe he was just sitting around this big old house with
this dog and doing whatever he wanted.
The sun came through the window and he looked at the rays of light
and saw for the first time that they were good. He usually didn’t care about
stuff like that. But now he did. He looked at the dust and the grass outside
and the clouds.
He sat on the couch and the dog looked at him. He pat the dog on the

head.
The dog cried and he thought that the dog would have to eat something.
He went into the cupboards and found a giant bag of dog food and put
some in a bowl and scooped it. The dog food went all over the ground. The
dog ate all of it. Herman looked at the dog’s tongue as it scooped up all of
the little bits.
Herman looked up the staircase. He decided it was time to go up there.
He crept up the stairs. They kept creaking. The dog followed him. He
looked in the room. There were a lot of books and file cabinets.
He looked at another room. There was a sink and a shower. And then
the other room had a bed in it. Herman smelled something putrid. He put
his shirt overtop of his nose. He looked in the room.
Some old guy was sprawled on the ground. He pajamas were all messed
up. Herman walked up to him.
“Hullo?”
Herman knew the guy was dead from the moment he walked in there.
He looked at the dog. The dog looked at him.
Herman closed the door and went back to the library. He tried to find a
copy of Moby Dick. He looked for his name Herman along the side. And
there it was.
He found the damn book. He was very happy to see it again. This
version of it was very old and dusty. He took it with him downstairs. He lay
on the couch and started reading it again. The pages were crackly and the
spine of the book was falling apart. He couldn’t beleive he found the book
again.
Later Herman sat on the balcony. He looked out into the grass. And
eventually he went back inside and slept on the couch again.
He slept for as long as he wanted. He liked having that dog around too.
In the morning Herman went outside and looked at the truck. It was a
green truck and it seemed old, like the book. The door was open. He sat in
the driver’s seat and looked out the windsheild. He pretended to drive it along the grass.
He imagined driving it on the road outside of the jail with all of those
other trucks. He imagined driving as fast as they did when they blew past
him and almost squashed him like a damn fly. He thought of driving past
the jail and looking at the vent and giving his middle finger to that building.
He started smiling when he thought of that dumb bastard Carl and all
his friends. He couldn’t believe that he just got the hell out of that place.
And Carl was probably sitting there wondering what the hell happened to
him. He never said he was leaving or anything. He just went off and
dissapeared. Just like that.
He thought of Paul laughing his ass off about that. He knew Paul would
have thought what he had done was great and unbelieveable. And Sean also.
He pretended to drive the truck. He looked in the glove box and just
found some old papers. He got out of the truck and looked at the front of it.
He wanted to open the top but he didn’t know how to do that. He went
back into the truck and looked everywhere to find the key. And there it was.
In the visor. He looked at the key. He put it in the ignition and turned it.
The truck rumbled and he got very scared. He sat there and the engine
rattled him around.
He looked at the pedals on the ground. He put his foot on one of them
and nothing happened. He put his foot on the other and it revv’d and he got
scared and lifted it. He messed with everything until he was driving. He
couldn’t believe it. He was driving through the grass and he went as slow as
he could. He jerked on the brake and went forward. He was still sore from
jumping off the building the day before so he didn’t want to do that again.
He turned the wheel and went somewhat in a circle. He stopped pressing
the pedals and it took a while until the truck stopped moving. He turned off
the key.
He was a while away from the house. He put the key in his pocket and
walked all the way back there. The dog saw him and ran after him and then
followed him back to the house.
In the nightime Herman thought about that dead guy upstairs. He

thought that maybe he should bury him in the yard or something. He
started to think that someone was going to come and think that he killed the damn guy. And if they caught him he would have to start all the way
from the beginning.
He didn’t want to go outside in the nighttime. He could hear all kind of
coyotes out there. He would wait until morning and then see what kind of
shovels there were out back.
Herman woke up many times throughout the night. His body was
becoming more sore from the escape as it healed.
The dog woke up when he woke up and looked where he looked.
He wanted to drive the truck again. At least put it back to where it was
before but he was scared of driving it towards the house. He imagined
smashing the truck into the house and it coming crashing down.
He knew that eventually someone was going to come looking for the old
man. Maybe some mail man or something like that. Herman was unsure if
he should bury the man’s body. Or maybe he could just take the truck and
leave. There was a decent amount of food left. Maybe he could just put it in
the truck and take off.
He went back into the man’s bedroom and found the smallest clothes
that he had. He finally got to change out of that bloody uniform. He found a
weird striped shirt and a pair of shorts that basically fit him like pants
anyway. He tightened the shorts up with a belt. He looked in the mirror and
washed his face. He was happy to see himself wearing normal clothes. He
was used to having his hair cut really short. They always took the clippers
to it. He looked through the man’s closet and found a good baseball hat. He
though that would be good most of all in case anyone came looking for him.
It’d be harder to tell who he was.
When the sun came out Herman went to the road. He told the dog not
to follow him but the dog didn’t listen.
Herman walked along and passed a couple more houses. And he got into
the town. There was a post office, a supermarket and some shops. It was the smallest damn town Herman had ever seen.
He was frightened being there in a way. He just thought that someone
would see him and ask what he was doing and who he was and why he was
at that guys house. Especially because the dog kept following him.
He turned back and went along the road and went back to the house.
That was enough going around for one day.
He went back to the house and sat on the porch and looked at the sun.
As scared as he was it kept occuring to him that he was able to do whatever
the hell he wanted. Even going outside and going into the town. He smiled
when he thought about that. And now he could sit out on the deck for as
long as he wanted and there was no one to tell him what to do about it.
He decided he was going to cook up an egg. That was something he’d
never done before. But he got the idea. Light up the frying pan. Crack the
damn egg in there and let it burn.
But first he would go out to the shed and see what kind of stuff was in
that shed.
He walked out there and saw there were all kinds of tools. Herman was
very excited to see them all. He had no idea what they were for, for the
most part, but he could mess around with them. He saw there was a tractor
and a bunch of cans of gas. There was a big flashlight. He powered it up.
The beam was great. He kept that with him.
And there were many shovels. He took the best one.
He looked at the house and thought about where he would dig the hole.
He wanted to find the best place. Where no one would find it. There was a
bit of a hill around the way. He could see how that would work. It was far
enough away from the house that it wasn’t in plain view.
He walked over there and the dog followed as usual. He started digging.
He liked pulling the dirt out of the ground. He thought of Adam and when
they were messing with the dirt. He was happy to think of that memory. He
would like to see Adam again one day. And maybe he would. He had a
feeling that Adam, whatever he was up to, would have been doing alright.

He was that kind of guy.
The dog liked digging in the dirt as well. He shuffled his paws and sent
the dirt flying into the air. Herman looked at the crumbs of dirt that the dog
flung upward and they flew towards the sky.
Sometimes the dog would just run straight through the field for no
damn reason at all. He would just run and do a bunch of circle and then
come back to where Herman was.
They started getting tired being in the sun all day. So they went back
inside. Herman gave the dog another bowl of his special food. Herman ate a
couple pieces of it. He didn’t spit it out but it was strange as hell. He didn’t
know why the hell that dog got so excited about eating that but he supposed
a snack was a snack.
He put the pan on the stove. It took him a while to figure out how to
light it up and when he did a big burst of fire come out towards him. He
felt like his eyelashes were crunchy from that. But it was alright after he
rubbed his eyes a bit.
He got the egg from the fridge. He cracked it and poured the yellow yolk
and the goo inside the pan and it started to take on a strange shape and got
white with the heat. He put the shell on the counter.
He cooked it for a long time until it was smoking. He ate it with his
hand from the pan. There was some crunchy bits in the bite. From the
eggshell. But that was alright. He had never cooked an egg before then.
He slept for some time. He was becoming less sore. But he was walking
with a limp now. For most of the day he worked on digging the hole. He
made sure it was big enough.
He saw some worms twirling in the dirt. He watched them twist in the
sun.
The dog also did his fair share of things and he dug a good amount of
the dirt also.
Herman looked up the dead man’s window. He didn’t know if he should
bury him or leave him there.
He went inside to drink water and relax. He knew that the smell of the man was starting to come downstairs. Especially with the heat.
And Herman thought of the worms. They might want to eat the guy.
So he went upstairs. He tied a towel around his face. The man smelt
very putrid. Herman knew then that it was what had to be done.
He looked at the man. He was in his pajamas. His bear was very long
and he looked like one of the oldest people Herman had ever seen in his life.
It was weird to see a dead guy who didn’t get killed. It was almost peaceful
to see. As far as Herman could tell he just died from being an old bastard.
He was here in his house with his dog and his truck and all his tools and
who knows what he was doing. Maybe he was waking up and going about
his day or maybe he was going to bed.
Herman looked at this guy and he knew that in a way, it was the best
thing that could ever happen to him. He would live to be an old guy like
this, in his house, minding his own business. And then one day. That was
that. There was way around it. All the guys he’d met, that he didn’t know
anymore, they were basically dead already, and to them, Herman was dead.
He took the man and dragged him out of the bedroom and in the hall.
His body felt like it was made of elastic bands and cookie dough.
The dog followed closely behind. Herman dragged him down the stairs.
He head clunked along as it hit every step. He pulled him out from the deck
and into the yard.
The man’s body flattened the grass as he dragged it. And then they stood
there at the foot of the grave. Herman and the dog and the dead guy.
“Well man, any last words?” Herman asked the dog.
The dog barked.
Herman nodded.
And then he dumped the guy into the grave.
For the rest of the evening they put the dirt back into the ground where
it came from. The grass was all gone where they dug. Herman thought that
if anyone came around they would see something was really strange about
that.
So he went back to the truck and he drove it towars the hole. He crashed into a wagon on the way. The wagon wasn’t broken but some of the
wood on it was snapped.
Herman looked at it on the way back in. He went into the house and
went to the old man’s room. He opened the window to let the air in.
He went back downstairs and sat on the balcony. The dog sat there also.
He watched the sun set by the road. He heard the bugs in the in the grass
and the trees.
He was awoken in the morning by some truck driving up to the place.
He got up quickly. He saw that a yellow truck was outside the window. A
woman got out of the truck and slammed the door.
The dog ran towards the turck and Herman ran towards the other side
of the house. He went out the backdoor and ran to the shed.
He heard the woman yelling, “Dad?, the hell are you?”
He stayed in the shed and he looked at all of the tools. The saws and the
rakes. He found a small hatchet. He didn’t want to get into a fight with her.
He didn’t want to use the hatchet on her, but he needed something. Because
he had no idea what she was going to do.
He could hear the dog barking and she kept yelling and looking for her
the old man.
He heard the door creek from the back of the house. He knew that he
didn’t close it all the way. He also knew that he didn’t close the shed door.
He just stood there with the hatchet.
He could hear that she was coming towards the shed. He could see her
shadow in the sun. And when he heard her creek open the door. He ran.
He ran as fast as he could. And she chased him. He ran through the
grass, away from the house and away from the road. She was fast and he
could feel her gaining on him. The dog was outrunning her and he went
after Herman.
And then he tripped on a rock or a divet in the dirt and fell into the
grass. He felt the metal slip below his ribs. The hatchet stabbed into him.
And he went cold.
He lay on the ground and the dog barked and tried to lick him.

The woman ran up to him and knelt down. Herman yelled and tried to
get her off. She could see how scared he was.
“Hey. Slow down. I’m not going to hurt you,” she said.
Herman was still reeling. He saw that the hatchet had stabbed him. He
thought of the lunch gaurd. He thought of the old man. And now him. He
wanted to pull the hatchet out but the woman stopped him.
“Don’t,” she grabbed his hand. He tried to force his way past her but she
was a lot stronger than him.
Herman let out a long scream. He tried to get out of her grip. But he
couldn’t.
She looked at the hatchet.
“Do you want me to pull it out?” she said.
He looked at her. He breathed heavily. He didn’t say anything. He
screamed in pain again. His eyes had become feral and in a way he looked
like he was going to gnaw her neck off of dart again.
“I’m going to pull it out okay?” she said, “You’re going to be okay,” she
put her hand on his head. And this calmed him. He closed his eyes and she
pulled out the hatchet.
Blood began to pour out of it. He took off her shirt and pushed down on
it. “We’re going to keep pressure on it. But you’re going to be okay?
Alright?”
He didn’t respond.
“Say alright,” she said.
He nodded.
“Don’t call the cops,” he said.
She looked at him curiously for saying that. She carried him back into
the house and lay him on the table. She cleaned up the injury the best she
could. He flinched.
“What’s your name?” she said to him.
He didn’t respond.
“Alright,” she said, “well I don’t got a name either.”
He nodded. 
“You’re going to be okay. The bleedings slowing down. If it was any
deeper you’d be in trouble. And any higher up, could have stabbed your
damn heart out.”
He was sick to hear that.
“You’re going to be alright,” she said again.
She could see that his face was still flush and white and he was in a lot
of pain. She went to the medicine cabinet and found some pills. She brought
them back with a glass of water.
“Take these,” she gave him the pills. She tried to prop them up so he
could swallow them but it hurt him too much to move.
“Alright, alright, relax,” she crushed up the pills and mixed them in with
the water.
Herman drank the water. It had a bitter taste to it.
She didn’t say anything to him. She could see how much pain he was in.
The dog waited on the kitchen floor and looked back and forth between her
and Herman.
He closed his eyes and eventually fell asleep for some time. She
continued to check through the house. She couldn’t find her father
anywhere.
She cleaned up the kitchen. She tossed out what was old and tried to
prepare some of the food that was there. She boiled the potatoes and
unfroze some of the sausages that were in the freezer.
When Herman woke up he was very sore. She had moved him to the
couch. His eyes fluttered open. He tried to get up but he couldn’t.
She came over to him with a glass of tea and water. The sausage and
potatoes.
“How you feeling?”
Herman didn’t respond to her.
She looked at him and tried to read his face. But she wasn’t sure what to
make of this kid.
“I came looking for my Dad,” she said, “I haven’t heard from him in a few days. Were you working for him?”
Herman still didn’t say anything.
“Was he here when you got here?”
Herman shrugged.
“How you feeling? You okay?”
He nodded and tried to make it seem like he was alright but his eyes
filled with tears and he cried. He didn’t know why that happened to him. It
may have been the pain killers that she’d given to him. It may have been the
release of everything that had happened. It may have been the fact that no
one asked that very often. It may have been the fact that he hadn’t spoken to
anyone in what felt like a long time.
He looked at the dog and the dog was staring at him.
“Seems like Elroy’s looking out for you,” she said.
That was the dog’s name. Elroy. Herman looked at him and could see
that was a good name for the dog. Herman nodded at the dog and she saw
that he did that.
“You don’t know where my dad is?” she asked.
Herman shook his head.
She nodded. It seemed like she believed him. He wasn’t going to tell her
that her Dad had bit the dust in his pajamas and Herman buried him in the
yard under the truck.
He would rest there for now. And then he knew that he was going to
have to leave again. When he good. As soon as he was strong enough to
stand up. Because every time that he tried, he felt that his body was unable
to do so.
He was happy that the dog stayed with him there. The dog knew exactly
what he did but he didn’t care. He even knew the man and still the dog did
not look at him differently.
As Herman lay there he went in and out of a dream state. He thought of
the lunch gaurd and what it would have felt like for him, when Herman
stabbed in, and the pencil went into his ribcage and for him it went to as deep as it needed that it killed him. And Herman knew that because he felt
it go into the man’s chest. He felt it tear through the skin and through his
insides further, and he watched the look on the man’s face as it went
further. And he saw the man gasp and he saw the life leave his body and he
saw the man fall onto the ground.
It would be easy, Herman thought, to die. As Paul had. As the old man
had. As the lunch guard had. But it seemed that he, himself, was not dead
yet. He had to continue onward. He had to leave this place like he had left
every other. He could still the sun from window. And in that moment he
remembered only a few days before. When he sat on the porch, watching
that same damn sun.
It was easier, in a way, when he couldn’t get up. The woman stayed. She
searched through the yard and tried to help Herman. She dressed the wound
and talked to him.
She asked where he came from, who is family was and where he was
going. He didn’t have a good answer for any of that.
She got him to sit up and go to the kitchen. He drank water. He could
feel how the wound was healing.
At first he felt grateful that he wasn’t dead but soon he became used to
the idea and it became ordinary that he hadn’t died.
She asked him again, “are your parents in town?”
He shook his head.
“Are they in the city?”
He shrugged.
“Do you want to use the phone?”
“No.”
That was one of the only words she heard him say. She had thought at
times that he didn’t know how to speak.
“Were you reading that book?” she asked him.
He nodded.
“Do you like it?”
He shrugged. 
“My dad liked that book. He tried to get me to read it when I was a kid
but I thought it was too long.”
“I never finished it,” said Herman.
“I’m sure my dad would be happy that you were reading it.”
Herman looked at her blankly. Along with the dog and the book.
They sat at the kitchen table.
“Did you run away from home?”
“I guess so,” said Herman.
“It’s okay if you did.”
He didn’t know if he believed her fully. Even if she was telling the truth
it didn’t mean she wasn’t wrong.
He went outside and sat on the deck and looked at the sun. The dog was
following the woman around.
At the end of the evening she cooked them another meal. She had
unfrozen some meat from the freezer. He had never had meat that good in
as long as he could remember. She cooked it over the barbecue in the yard
and he loved it.
“Good right?” she asked.
He nodded.
“You want to go into town after?” she asked. She could see that he
looked scared of that and she asked him if he was scared.
“I guess so,” he said.
“Tell you what, you can stick by me, and we can bring Elroy. We’ll make
sure nothing happens to you.”
He wasn’t sure.
“You’re a quite one aren’t you?” she asked.
“No.”
That made her smile.
He didn’t know why she smiled.
They got into her truck and drove into the town. They went to the
grocery store and walked up and down the aisles. He walked slowly and looked at all of the different things on the shelves. They bought some
granola bars and candies. She bought a tub of ice cream also. She bought
some more meat and potatoes and some carrots. They filled up the basket.
She paid for the groceries and he looked at her wallet. She didn’t have
that much cash in there, but she had enough to pay. They gave her back
some coins.
She got him to carry one of the grocery bags out to the truck. It hurt his
stomache, but he didn’t want her to know that.
He could feel that the injury was becoming wet and it was bleeding
somewhat. But the pain was tolerable enough.
They went to the river and sat in the back of her truck and ate ice
cream. He saw some frogs jumping off of the rocks and going towards the
water. He smiled when he saw that. She saw him smile.
“Cool frogs eh?”
“Yah.”
He went towards the frogs and looked at them more closely. He thought
they were very funny. He looked at her and smiled. She was happy to see
that he was doing better.
Elroy came over and looked at the frog too. When the frog saw him he
jumped head first in the water. Herman thought that was funny also. He
went back and ate more of the ice cream. He didn’t want to stop eating it
but he was so full that he thought that it might start coming out of his
hatchet injury.
“We can save the rest for later, don’t worry,” she said. And when they got
home she put the ice cream into the freezer.
She turned on the radio and there was some music playing. It stopped
him where he stood. It brought him back to a moment that he knew but
couldn’t remember. It reminded him of a version of himself that he hadn’t
thought of in a long time.
But the more he stood there and listened to the song, the more he
realized that the memory he thought he remembered didn’t exist. Instead the version of himself that he thought of never exist until now. He listened
to the song. The guitars were peircing and they were slamming on the
drums as hard as they could.
He stood by the window looking at nothing and before the song was
over he was no longer transfixed by it. She had put the groceries into the
fridge.
She gave him another one of the pain killers and told him to rest up. He
lay on the couch and fell asleep quite fast. She sat with him as he fell asleep.
She put her hand on his forehead.
In the morning he woke up as usual. He had slept deeply. When he got
up his stomach was still sore. He was slow to move. He went to the freezer
and looked and saw that the ice cream was there. He was going to take it
and eat some but he noticed there was another vehicle pulling up to the
house.
The woman was standing there waiting for them. He rushed and got
dressed. He saw that the person who got out of the car was some kind of
cop or business person. He knew what that look was and he knew by the
way that she stood that it was time to go. He looked at her one last time
and the saw that Elroy was there with her. And he ran towards the back
gate. Moving as fast as he could, the pain in his stomache still held him back
but not enough to stop him from getting the hell away.
He limped through the grass. Past where he buried the old man, past
where the truck was. He stayed clear from the road. He went to where the
grass was tallest and eventually the trees became tall and dense enough the
he felt like he could stop. He leaned against a tree and cried from the
exhaustion and the panic.
The quiet in the trees scared him and was difficult to handle. He knew
that he could fight most anyone that came around to him, but he could
imagine the bears and coyotes in the woods that he wouldn’t stand a chance
against.
He leaned against the tree and he thought of that woman and how she sold him out like that. He could see in the way that she looked at him that
she felt bad for him. She felt bad about who he was. And the situation he
was in. He could see that and it made him angry at her. She was only giving
him all of those snacks at the grocery store because she felt bad about who
he was and about what she was going to do.
He thought that she wouldn’t feel nearly as bad about it if she knew
what he had done. That he had buried her father in the yard and lied about
it. Eventually she would figure it out but he would be long gone. And even
if he dug him up and found him, she would see that he was dead and
covered in dirt. The dirt would be in the old man’s dead eyes and in his
mouth and his nose. Even if he woke up one day and he wasn’t dead after
all he would die from being buried underground.
He felt bad for thinking that. Because it meant a lot to him to be able to
stay in that house when he did. To have the place all to himself for a couple
days. To have some food to eat and get to hang out with that dog and watch
the sun.
She helped him with his injury, when the hatchet stabbed into his
stomach like that. If only she knew that he had done the same thing to the
lunch room gaurd. And he was not so lucky as Herman was. Or perhaps he
was luckier. He get the easy way out. He wasn’t the one who was standing
alone in the woods with nowhere to go.
Herman looked along the ground. There were pinecones and acorns and
all kinds of dirt and rocks. He was trying to find the right stick. He walked
further in the woods. There was nowhere else that would be safe for him at
this point.
The trees looked identical in every direction. He had no idea which way
the road was or how he could even get back to the house if he wanted to.
The fear came in waves. Every time he would see a bird fly or a leaf move
he would jump. He could hear some animals in the distance but they
scattered quickly.
Eventually he found a stick that was strong enough that he could hold it with a good grip in his hand. He had been thinking about it and the truth
was he killed that lunch room guard with a pencil. So with a stick like this
maybe he could stand a chance against whatever animal was out there,
looking to have him for lunch.
He sat beneath a tree that he liked. There was some sticky stuff on it,
some sap that went onto his shirt. He got some on his finger and it was
annoying him. He took a rock and he sharpened his new stick like it was a
pencil. He laughed at one point thinking about bringing that pencil back to
the school and showing it to Ms. Eerie. After all he had been through. That
stupid pencil that she gave him then. If only she knew where he was now.
Alone in the woods, escaped from every place they tried to put him in.
Sitting in the woods now with a pencil that was taller than he was. Maybe
now he could get his homework done or do one of his tests.
He held the stick like a spear. The end could be sharper but he didn’t
want to widdle it down so much that it would just snap off. So he got back
up and he went back onto the trail. Now with this spear he wasn’t so damn
scared. He imagined a bear coming towards him and he pushed the spear
outward and let out a yell and imagined stabbing that damn bear right in
the stomache. He imagined a coyote coming towards him and he swung the
spear and would whack it across the jaw and jam the spear right through its
head and its skull and brain. He was feeling better about it now. He walked
slower so that his stomach didn’t hurt anymore.
He walked for a long time and was getting very hungry and very thirsty.
But he heard the sound of rushing water ahead. He followed it for some
time before he got to it.
He sat at the base of the river and felt the air was cool beside it. He put
his hand inside and felt the water push across his hand. He loved looking at
the water and felt very peaceful being beside it. He cupped the water with
his hands and drank it. He could see little minnows swimming. He tried to
grab one but they were faster than he was.
He eventually found a place to cross the river. He waited to see if any fish would come but he didn’t see any. He carried his spear and was
becoming very hungry. He thought of finding a small critter, a rabbit or a
squirrel. He walked deeper into the woods and as the sun set again he
became frightened. He walked as long as he could, following towards the
moon. Eventually though, he sat beneath a tree and slept.
He woke up late in the night and did not know how long he slept for.
He had let go of his spear when he was sleeping and his heart beat very fast.
He searched around the dirt and was able to find the spear. He held it
tightly and looked towards the moon. His eyes were blurry and his back had
become sore from sleeping on a rock.
He closed his eyes again and tried to sleep but his mind raced too
quickly to even grab ahold of a single thought. He looked upwards to the
stars and thought of the bedsprings and how much closer they were to him
than these stars were.
He was able to picture those bedsprings more clearly than what he even
saw infront of him. He knew them indefinitley.
He thought of Sean and Paul and those days when they would spend
countless hours in that room together, usually doing nothing. He thought of
getting into those fights with all of those guys that Paul would set up.
Herman didn’t care about the times he won or lost any of those fights.
Especially when Paul bet against him winning that one fight but it meant
that they got all of the money in the end. It calmed Herman to think of his
friend. He thought that since Paul was dead he was neither closer or farther
from him now, even in the middle of the woods. Sean on the other hand.
Herman didn’t imagine he was dead. He didn’t imagine he’d gone anywhere
since he saw him last. He didn’t know how long ago that was. Maybe some
months. He could imagine Sean still there with his chess pieces. Looking
carefully at every combination. Knowing that he could move or die. And
death was not an option. Though maybe it was, thought Herman. As he lay
in the woods, alone, without food, and too cold to sleep. Maybe the option
to die was very real.
And with that Herman got up and he began to walk towards the moon.

He heard some movement around him and he stopped and was still and so
were they. He saw a deer at a certain point. He was unsure if the deer could
see him. The sun had begun to rise and there was a clearing in the trees.
There was frost on the grass and the field seemed to go on for some
time but there was a road some ways away. Past hay barrels.
He did not want to move fast now that he saw the sun and that road. He
walked slowly and he felt that the injury in stomach was still painful. His
stomache had clenched and shrunk and it was tiring to the injury. As he
relaxed with the morning sun he felt how sore it would be.
He saw there were cattle in the field and he felt the spear in his hand.
Even if he killed one of them he didn’t know how we would cook it and
have steak or hamburgers or anything like that. He followed along the hay
and the road. He still was careful not to be seen by anyone.
He saw how big the sky was in that area. He had never seen anything
like that in the city before. He looked at the trees behind him and thought
that they looked like teeth. That they were like an open mouth and in any
moment the jaw of the treetrops would snap closed and swallow the sky.
Whenever a truck approached he hid behind a barrel of hay and at one
point a truck drove past him and he hid behind a cow.
There was a town ahead and he was unsure if it was the same on that he
went to before and got the ice cream with the woman. He thought that he
had gone in the other direction but when he was in the forest he didn’t
know which way he would have ended up going.
Herman looked closely at each farm house that he passed. He saw few
cars. He didn’t see the house he was at before. Before he walked into the
town he broke his spear into a much small piece. Something that he could
keep by his side and that wouldn’t be as noticeable. He wanted to be able to
slip it into the side of his pants if he needed to hide it.
Each time one of the trucks would pass he imagined how fast they were
going. He thought of driving that old man’s truck around in a circle and he
wished would have driven it more. He knew that eventually that woman, or someone, would move the truck and see that the grass was all ruined.
Eventually they would find the old man there. And maybe he was a skeleton
by now, eaten by worms and so dead that he couldn’t even wake up
screaming like he thought he would before. Herman smiled when he
thought of that old man as a skeleton waking up and his head popping out
from the dirt and screaming. He liked that old man, even though he only
met him when he was already dead.
And maybe, they wouldn’t move the truck until the grass had grown
back and the man would never be found. He would have no tombstone and
for all that woman knew, her old man turned to dust and was blown out the
window, or the dog was hungry and ate him one day.
Herman walked into the town. He stood on the sidewalk. There was a
row of shops. Not that many.
He went into a supermarket. He didn’t see a shopkeeper when he came
in. He quickly went to the aisle and found a box of crackers and went back
to the doorway. He walked away fast. He went and hid behind another one
of the stores. He sat and ripped open the crackers and ate them. He was
feeling better already. He kept the spear close in case he needed it. But
better than getting into a fight he would just run. He ate the crackers and no
one bothered him.
He only saw a couple cars go by. But they couldn’t even see him. And
even if they did he didn’t think they would even care about some kid who
was sitting there eating crackers. Until the whole box was gone.
He felt his mind slow down. He even felt tired. He closed his eyes for a
bit and even slept. But not for very long. He got up in a panic, thinking that
shopkeeper might be after him.
He walked behind the shops. Through the alleyway. The alleyway opened
up after a bit. There was a big fence and behind the fence there was a whole
bunch of cars and trucks. A lot of them looked like they’d been stripped for
parts or some of them were really old and some of them were totalled.
He saw some old guy wearing coveralls. He held a wrench and was trying to knock the bolt off the side of a truck. Herman couldn’t believe it.
It was a damn auto shop. Just like the one he imagined, all that time ago.
When he was at the school and looking at the road.
Herman looked at all the cars there. And he watched the guy hitting the
bolt over and over again. Herman could see there were a couple other guys
behind him inside of the garage.
They had a busted up truck that was hoisted up and they were looking
underneath it. Inside of the shop were all kinds of tools and machines.
There were big pits in the ground. He saw sparks blasting out of there. He
tried to see where they were coming from he couldn’t tell.
He crept around the fence and hid there. He watched all of the guys
doing what they were doing. He stayed there throughout the day. And
eventually, the sun began to dim in the sky. The guys all put their tools
away. They closed up the garage with a big chain. And they were all gone.
Herman looked through the fence and tried to find a way in. But it was
all locked up. He could climb the fence but there was barbed wire on the
top. And he didn’t want to go over barbed wire again.
He went to the front of the shop. He still didn’t find a way in. All the
doors were locked.
He went back to the fence. He kicked the dirt and scuffed around. Until
he realized that he could probably get under it. He dug with his hand in the
dirt and tried to pull up the fence the best he could. But still he had to pull
more out of the earth.
He yanked the fence and was able to get it open just enough to fit. He
looked at the cars that the guys were working on. He sat inside one of the
trucks that he thought looked best. He was very happy to sit in that chair
after sleeping in the woods and the dirt. He went into the back seat of the
truck and lay down and he slept. He held the speer in his hands.
He woke up when he heard the garage door open. He quickly jumped
up. The guys were inside of the garage. One of them was drinking a
thermos of coffee. Another turned the radio on.
Herman couldn’t go out of the doors. Or else they would see him.

Instead he opened the back window of the truck that led to the truckbed.
He climbed out and when he stepped onto the truckbed one of the guys saw
the truck bounce. The man walked over to the truck. He saw Herman jump
off the back of the truck and run towards the fence.
The man was a lot faster than Herman. He caught him. Herman swung
the spear and forth and tried to swipe the man. This guy was bigger than
anyone he’d ever fought. Herman was about as tall as his leg. The man
ripped the spear out of Herman’s hand.
“Howdy,” said the man.
Herman didn’t say anything.
“Not gonna hurt you kid, take it easy.”
Herman did calm down. Hearing that. Herman still look deep breaths.
And if the man was going to try anything Herman was going to grab the
spear and show him what he knew. Herman thought of running but he
didn’t.
“You know Carl?” Herman said.
“Carl?”
Herman nodded. He remembered what Carl told him before he left. He
said to tell the guys at the auto shop that he knew him. Because they knew
him too.
“Ha, yah. I know Carl,” the man said. He turned to the other guys, who
had all gathered around. He said, “this kid knows Carl.”
Everyone seemed to be happy about that.
“You want to come in kid?”
Herman nodded. He followed the man into the garage.
“What are you doing sneaking around there?”
“I’m coming to work here.”
“You are eh?” the man laughed and looked at Herman. Herman nodded.
“What your folks saying about that?”
“I don’t got none.”
“Huh.”
“Well who takes care of you?” 
Herman shrugged.
The man saw that Herman was pretty filthy. He looked more concerned.
“You from the city?” the man asked.
Herman shrugged again.
“Speak up.”
“I am,” said Herman.
“Your folks there?”
“I don’t know where they are.”
“Take a seat kid.”
Herman did so. The man gave him a donut and a cup of coffee.
Herman ate the donut and drank the coffee. The guys stood around and
drank their coffee also.
“What’s your deal then kid?”
“Carl said I could get a job here,” said Herman.
“A job eh?”
Herman nodded.
“Speak up then,” the man said to Herman.
“I wanna learn how to fix up cars and work in an auto shop like this
one.”
The man smiled, “alright, what kind of work experience you got?”
“Fighting and I worked in the laundromat.”
“Not bad, where was that?”
“At the jail,” said Herman. He tried to say it with dignity. He stood tall
and looked at the man in the eye.
The man looked at Herman, he understood now. “Most of us have done
some time. More of us than not,” the man said, “let’s get you a shirt.”
A tow truck arrived. The man looked over and so did Herman. It
dragged a police car behind it. The police car was totalled.
“Follow me,” the man said to Herman. Herman did so. They walked
towards the truck.
The cop and the tow truck driver got out.
“Afternoon Sam,” the man said to the tow truck driver.
“How goes it?”
“Bit of a wreck here, eh?” the man said, “you all good?” he said to the
cop.
“I’m good,” the cop said, “skid out around the bend.”
Herman could see, as well as everyone else that the cop had been
drinking.
“Take a load off, hey, kid, why don’t you help the officer out with a cup
of coffee and a donut.”
Herman nodded and he walked with the cop to where the coffee was.
When Herman poured him a coffee he burned his hand but he held it there
steadily and gave the cop the coffee and the donut.
“Thanks kid,” the cop said.
Herman said, “you’re welcome.”
Herman looked back at the man. The man saw that he did what he asked
him to. Herman went back over there.
The man brought Herman to the other end of the shop. He gave Herman
a workshirt that matched the other guys.
“See that bucket?” the man said to Herman.
“Yah.”
“Go ahead and fill it up. Use that tap. And then bring it over to me.”
Herman nodded. The man went back to the cop car.
Herman got the bucket.
He took it to the tap and it became very heavy as he filled it. He lift it
back across the shop.













LOTUSPOND, EARTH


A burnt tortoise shell lay in the gutter, its flesh had been carved out. He and the mule went along, guiding a wagon that was covered by a tarp. Passing the corner store and the other abandoned shops. 

A black horse was tied to a metal pole outside of the station. He nodded at the horse and knew, as well as the mule knew, that the horse had been there for longer than he usually had been.

He went to the back of the shop where he had a bed and a shelf and the
rest of what he had. He kept the mule and the wagon in the yard and kept them in his eyeline through the window.

He lay down and leaned his rifle on the bedside table. He looked at his stopwatch and logged the time into his notebook. He tallied the hours and noted that it was ten in the evening on friday, november third in the year nine. He reset the stopwatch and began to rest. As the hours passed the daylight remained and did not dim as he slept. 

He  was awoken by a rustling from inside of the shop. He took his rifle and held it to his shoulder and went towards the sound.

Get out and raise em, I’ll shoot your fuckin head I don’t
care who you are, he said. He went into the shop and looked along the entire aisle.

He saw a boy’s feet from beneath a rack of shirts. He held the rifle and said, who the fuck is there?
The boy raised his hands upward and came out from behind the shirts. His teeth were crooked, like someone had failed to yank them from his skull. The boy looked up at him, ignorant and defiant like. The boy spoke, I’m looking for a pair of boots and I got some good trade to oﬀer so unless you want this line of shirts covered in guts maybe you should go on and sell me em.

He spit on the ground and then the boy spit on the ground like him.
This a damn shop or not? the boy asked. 
It’s a damn shop.
So measure my foot and give me a damn boot.
How’d you get in here?
The door.
That a smart answer?
It was open.
The hell it was.
I jimmied the lock.
He held his rifle at his shoulder but the boy did not look threatened by it.
This is the best I got to oﬀer. The boy showed him the thin strips of dried meat he had. He looked at them suspiciously.
You want it or not?
That man?
The boy shook his head.
What is it then?
I traded for it.
Is it human?
It’s all I got so I’ll give you it for sizing my foot and getting me a boot.
What kind of meat is it boy?
I told you I don’t know.
What kind of boot you want?
A soldier’s boot.
I’ll give you a work boot.
I’m looking for a soldier’s boot.
The boy oﬀered him the meat again. You taking it or not?
Finally he lowered the rifle and took the meat and put it into his pocket.
What size boot are you?
The hell should I know?
He knelt down and sized the boy's foot.
I don’t got soldier’s boots in your size. They don’t make them like that. Unless you want ladies sizes.
I don’t want no ladies sizes.
Then a work boots going to do.
He gathered some options from the shelf and showed them to the boy. He looked at the options carefully.
Well which one is most like a soldier’s boot?
He looked at the boots and considered the question. He held out an option.
This is a good boot and it will serve you well. Could wear it on any battleground. Good as any other.
Alright give it here then.
He loosened the laces and held the boot for the boy.
The boy put his foot into the boot and he laced up the boot for him.
I’m going on to be a soldier.
In what army?
I’m finding one. And I’ll take down more parasites than any man before me. You’ll see.
The hell you will. Ain’t no army left.
No ones got what it takes to kill like me.
Uh huh.
The boy studied him.
You a vet?
He did not answer. The boy took some steps around the shop feeling his foot in the boot. He looked proudly in the mirror.
Now take your boots and go on.
The boy stood and stared at him.
Go on boy.
The boy went out of the shop and he went to the door and looked at the lock. He could see the dents and scratches where the boy jimmied it. 

He went back through the shop and took his stopwatch. He noted the hours and tallied them into his notebook. By his count it was near four in the morning. The light had not changed. He went into the yard and sat with the mule. They ate the meat the boy gave them. He lay in the dirt and the moon and the stars in the white sky. The constellations were long scrambled. They were mostly clustered into a certain area like they’d been swept into the corner with a broom. 

He awoke again and did not know how long he had slept. He wrote his best guess in his notebook. He at some powdered sugar from a stick and fed some to the mule. They walked through the town and when they passed the station they saw the sheriﬀ’s horse laying in the dirt, still attached to the pole. The horse looked thirsty and irritated.

He and the mule went towards the station. He held his rifle at his shoulder and the mule followed him and guided the wagon on the other side of the window. The jail cells were vacant and there were no guns in the armoury. The door to the sheriﬀ’s oﬃce was narrowly open and he listened closely before pushing it forward with his foot. Towards the desk sheriﬀ hung dead, his pant leg tied from a beam in the ceiling towards his neck.
God damnit, he lowered his rifle and looked back at the mule who waited patiently on the other side of the window. The oﬃce was organized and there was no sign of anything that happened other than a man who hung himself.

Until he noticed sheriﬀ’s leg severed from the calf downward. It was hard to imagine the sheriﬀ hanging himself hopping on one foot but he supposed it could be done. He took his knife and climbed onto the desk and cut the sheriﬀ down. And at that moment there was the boy, he made a run for the door.
He dropped the sheriﬀ’s body, its skull clunked oﬀ the edge of the desk and sprawled onto the ground. He grabbed the boy and held him by the scruﬀ and put the rifle to his head.
Boy.
I didn’t do nothing.
The hell you didn’t.
He desperately tried to get out of his grip.
Let me go. I ain’t done nothing.
He dropped him onto the ground and still pointed the rifle at him.
Take them boots oﬀ boy.
We traded.
You got a pistol to negotiate with or you gonna squirm your way into a grave of your own?
I gotta eat. I’m damn hungry and I got to eat. He did himself in so what’s it matter?
No soldier eats his kind. Now gimmie them boots back.
The boy wouldn’t do it so he pushed the rifle into his neck.
Take them boots oﬀ boy.
The boy did.
A soldier gives a man a burial. Returns him to the earth.
Where the worms just gonna eat him.
He hit the boy with the butt of the rifle and the boy fell backward.
What did I say?
The boy felt his head, where he hit him. He saw a new light and blinked his eyes repeatedly.
He felt remorse for doing what he did but he had no intention of showing that to the boy. He made sure the mule was still with the wagon on the other side of the window.
The boy unlaced the boots and gave them back to him. 
Now come on with it.
With what?
He picked up the sheriﬀ from the floor and held him up by the shoulders.
Come on boy.
He looked towards him and said, I’m not doing nothing.
You earn back those boots by giving this man a proper burial.
The boy looked at the mule and the wagon outside.
I will take no mercy on you, he told him and did not break his gaze until the boy took the sheriﬀ’s leg and his severed shin and they carried the body away.

He walked with the boy and the mule down the road. The sheriﬀ’s body was wrapped in the tarp and tied to the
top of the wagon.
You know what? the boy said.
No.
You gotta gimmie my boots back, we traded fair and square.
Nothing fair or square about that trade.
I bet that damn sheriﬀ would arrest your ass if he hadn’t done himself in.
Show some respect boy.
I ain’t doing that. And I’ll say this, what’s that sheriﬀ even the sheriﬀ of? That’s a ghost town through and through.
He did not answer. The boy followed behind him. He looked at theh boy and saw he was thirsty. They stayed quiet for some time and eventually came past a row of power lines that had become mere stumps.
What happened to them lines?
They got cut down.
Who did that?
Lumberjacks probably.
Are they dead?
No.
What do they want with those lines?
Supplies.
For what?
That’s their business.
You went and took their boots too?
Boy.
Well you gonna make them come along to this damn gravesite?
I got nothing to do with them.
Well I got nothing to do with you.
That’s right you don’t.
Whose coming to this funeral then?
You. Me. The mule.
You gonna say prayers?
No.
Why you want me there?
I don’t.
So gimmie my boots back and I’ll be on my way.
Get em back when I say you get em back.
Having got stuck with you, I’d say this damn mule’s probably got the worst damn life I ever seen.
Mule’s a tough bastard, he said.

They had veered oﬀ the road towards a field of dirt. The gravesites were spread apart from one another, the tombstones were hastily carved.
He handed the boy a shovel and the boy dug the grave. He read his book and looked at the horizon and recorded the hours into his notebook. He shared what was left of a cabbage with the boy while he took a break from digging. The boy was covered in sweat.
I shoulda got a new shirt from your store. This ones seen better days.
He nodded.
You got your own crops?” the boy asked.
No.
Where’d you get that then?
Up the road.
Some farmer?
Uh huh.
I bet you could make a decent farm for yourself if you put your mind to it.
Is that what you think?
I think so. I could help you get that started if you want.
You gonna help me build a farm?
I could, but I’ve got conditions.
I’ll bet you do.
You wanna be partners then?
No.
Why not?
He didn’t respond to that and the boy looked upset.
What? he asked.
I didn’t say nothing.
After they ate the boy went back into the hole. He continued to dig until he found himself to be six feet under.
That enough then?
How tall are you?
I got no idea. Now I dug this grave so gimmie the damn boots already.
He tossed the boots down onto him. The boy put them on and climbed out of the grave. He wiped the dirt oﬀ himself as best he could and looked up at him. Neither of them said anything. The boy broke the gaze and patted the mule on the head.
See ya mule.
You oﬀ then?
Uh huh.
The boy oﬀered a handshake to him. He gave it to him. The boy walked oﬀ towards the horizon. He put the sheriﬀ’s body into the grave and filled the hole with dirt. He looked at the horizon, wondering where the boy might have wandered oﬀ to. 

A truck approached and slowed down. His rifle was closer to the mule and out of his reach.

The driver looked prickled and bastardly. The passenger was ragged and hellish also.
Say sir, the passenger said and walked out of the truck.
He held the shovel tightly.
Day sir, the passenger said.
He nodded, and gripped the shovel and looked to see what the sharpest end of it was.
Fella here mentioned this might be a place for someone to come over and get some help for his ma.”
His ma, eh?” he asked.
Uh huh. And I’ll say this, she been a ma to me also.
Uh huh.
Was hoping on seeing about some kind of power supply that could help her out.
The driver spit out the window. The passenger looked at the mule and the wagon.
Asking if that’d be a possibility. With that wagon there, the passenger said.
He was ready to swing the shovel at him but kept his eye on the driver. 
She in tow? he asked.
Hell she’s in tow, the driver said.
She’s back where we came from, said the passenger.
No venturing back where you came from.
Can have you back here midday. We got the fuel.
Some folks depending on me here in town. 
Ma is going to die man, said the passenger.
The hell she is, the driver said.
She’s a kind woman. You’ll see. Can go ahead and load that wagon into the truck here then.
He looked at the driver. And then he looked at passenger. He spit on the ground again.
Damn it man, said the passenger.
You bring her to town I can see about helping her. I can give you my word on that.
Go on put that generator in the truck we can make the drive. No carting a person around when a machine can get on the way, the driver said. He showed him that he held a pistol. 
The passenger stepped towards the mule and he swung the shovel towards him. The passenger grappled the shovel from his hands and hit him across the cheek with it. He hit him a number of times until he was stopped by the driver who yelled at him, god is my witness mother
fucker. Get that fuckin generator let’s go.
The passenger kicked the mule and unhooked the wagon from the reign.
In that time he went and got the rifle and tried to shoot the passenger but could not see clearly enough and the shot went oﬀ towards the sky. The driver ripped the truck around and the passenger sent the wagon into the back of the truck. He tried to get up but the passenger kicked his head another time and knocked him into the pile of dirt. The driver and the passenger sped oﬀ the field and went down the road. The mule paced and whimpered. 

Some time had gone and he lay in the dirt, the mule beside him. He was awoken by the boy, who held his rifle towards his head.
Hey mister, the boy said and gave him another kick.
He woke and tried to get up but was weak.
The boy stared at him and held the rifle towards him.
Which way they went to?
The boy shrugged.
Get that thing out of my face boy.
He hit the rifle away. He checked to see if the mule was injured. The boy held the rifle across his chest.
I’m gonna kill those mother fuckers.
In the truck?
Which way they fuckin went?
Well I’d be coming along also.
The hell you will.
I got a life’s mission in killing and if you’re gonna kill those men then I’m coming along.
You’re a damn child. You got no idea about killing. You want to know about killing boy? I’ll shoot you dead where you stand. How about that? That what you want?
The took the rifle from the boy.
I know which way they’re headed, I was paying attention to that while you were busy napping on this mound of dirt.
Which way is it?
You let me come along and I’ll tell you.
He strapped the rifle back to his shoulder and fixed the mule’s reign.
We got a deal or you gonna shoot me dead where I stand? said the boy.
He went towards the road and the boy followed him.
They didn’t go that way.
Making a stop.
They went that way though!
The boy pointed up the road and showed him the direction they went.
You just showed your hand boy.
No I never.
He didn’t respond.
They stole your wagon.
They borrowed it.
They got plans for it?
Said their ma was sick and needed a boost.
Huh.
The boy thought about that.
Their ma takes electricity to live?
I got no idea what their ma takes to live.
That wagon got a lot of power?
He didn't respond. 
I bet you always got people trying to steal that thing.
That’s real perceptive of you boy.
The boy looked pleased with himself until he realized what he meant.
You just saying that out of sarcasm?
Saying what 
You saying that’s perspective of me because of sarcasm?
I didn’t say nothing.

They walked along the road until the boy spoke again.
Well you know what I’d do with that thing?
I got no idea.
I’d hook it into them powerlines.
Kind of you.
But I’d do it when those bastards were working so they got zapped.
Big cookout.
Big cookout.
The boy followed him and eventually they arrived back in the town to the shop. He opened a large toolbox and inside there were guns and explosives and ammunition. The boy lit up at the sight of it.
I can help in carrying that.
No.
He divided the weapons up into the mule’s satchels and the boy watched closely.
You said that I could come along if I told you which way they went and now you won’t even let me carry any of the damn weapons.
Go pick yourself a shirt,” he said.
The boy was quiet for a moment and then said, I got nothing left to trade.
You need a new shirt, go and get one.
He ran over to the shop. He studied the options and picked out an army style shirt. He searched through them and found what was smallest. It hung loosely on him still. He did up the buttons and ran back to him.
That’s a good quality shirt. Will serve you well.
The boy nodded and said, is it military grade?
It is. 
The boy was glad to have the shirt.
There’s a jug of water there. He pointed to it. The boy took the jug and chugged the it down.
Best we cut through the valley, he said.
The boy stopped, dead in his tracks.
The valley?
Uh huh.
Best we cut through the valley?
No other way to do it.
We can’t cut through the damn valley!
Take too long on the road.
Surefire we’re dead men going through the valley.
Get there third of the time. Chance in catching up and getting my wagon back.
He could see the boy was frightened dead by the horizon.
You take the road. I’ll take the valley,” he said. The boy stared at him.
You going on to be a soldier or not?
The idea made the boy proud and snapped the fear out of him.
Can I get a gun then?” the boy asked.
You aren’t getting no gun.
What kind of soldier’s got no gun?
You’re no soldier boy.
He tightened the mule’s reign and guided the mule down the road and the boy followed behind.
You gotta teach me then, the boy said.
I ain’t saying nothing.
You got to teach me to become a soldier.
He did not answer.
Else some parasite comes out of the earth and eats my head and you never showed me about no gun then it’s your fault I’m dead. You know that?
Kid.
Uh huh?
I’ve got some training for you.
Alright.
Shut your damn mouth.
The boy was happy to hear it. He smiled and walked more proudly along him and the mule. They continued down the road, the boy’s army. Into the horizon.

The trees and the foliage were brown and dead. The canopy was only sticks, there were no leaves and it hardly
shaded the heat.
Harold walked the mule along the dirt, away from the
leaves. Robert walked through the leaves. His footsteps
were noisy.
“Stop.” Harold said to Robert.
“What?”
“Boy. Stop.”
Robert stopped.
“You hear that?”
Robert listened but he did not understand what Harold
meant.
“That’s how it sounds where we are.”
“Uh huh.”
“Now take one of them steps.”
Robert took a step. The step was loud with only his heel
touching the leaf.
“You hear that?”
Robert nodded.
Harold touched the rifle to Robert’s foot.
“Back up.”
Robert moved his foot back.
“Now go again.”
23Robert stepped and when he put his heel into the ground
it was loud again.
Harold put the rifle to his foot.
“Go again.”
Robert tried again but he could not do it.
“You went and sold me a damn woman’s boot.”
“Those ain’t no woman’s boot.”
“They’re clanking along the dirt like a damn woman’s
boot.”
“It’s not the boot boy.”
“Then stop listening so loud.”
“Soldier has a way of walking.”
Robert was frustrated by him.
Harold took a step and it was silent. He took another
step. It was also silent.
“You hear that?” Harold asked him.
“No.”
“Got to understand how each step is walked.”
“That isn’t instructions.”
“You got to consider how you step into the dirt.”
“What kind of shortcut is this gonna be if you don’t let
me walk?”
“We’ll get tracked and killed going on like that boy.”
Robert stared at him.
“Take another step,” Harold said.
Robert did. It was better.
24“Good.”
“We’re gonna be trailing real slow like this.”
“Otherwise we won’t be trailing at all. Now go ahead.”
They walked and Robert focused. But at the sound of his
boot crushing a leaf Harold took his pistol and fired a shot.
Robert jumped out of the way and dove into the dirt.
“Living hell man!” said Robert.
Harold had a smirk on his face.
“You insane old bastard.”
“Watch it.”
“You almost shot me.”
“You shot?
“No.”
“Then I ain’t almost nothing.”
“What damn planet you tryna get me to jump oﬀ to?”
“Looked to me like you were so scared you were going to
jump out and get caught in the branches.”
“I ain’t scared.”
“You ain’t scared?”
“No.”
“You ain’t scared of no bullet?”
“I ain’t scared of no bullet.”
They walked and Robert did better at it.
“I’ll tell you what I’m scared of.”
“What’s that?”
“Your damn aim.”
25Harold laughed.
Robert looked up at him and saw the laugh. He was
surprised to see it. And he was proud of himself.
They continued along the trail and they din’t speak for
some time. The trail began to widen and the canopy
opened.
Harold stopped walking.
“You been on this trail before?” Robert asked him.
“No.” Harold took his notebook and his stopwatch.
“Then how you know where we’re going?”
“Gut feeling.”
“Gut feeling?”
“Tryna follow the stars.”
“Huh.”
“But they’re a damn mess.”
Robert looked up at them and squinted.
“So mostly following my gut,” said Harold.
Robert looked at what Harold was up to with the clock
and the notebook.
“What’s going on with that?”
“It’s a clock,” Harold said.
“What’s it for?”
“Boy, you never seen a clock?”
Robert shrugged.
“Want me to tell you how there’s dirt in the ground?”
“I ain’t asking how there’s dirt in the ground.”
26“Alright come here.”
“Don’t shoot me again.”
“Nobody shot you.”
“You did.”
Robert walked towards him. Harold showed him the
stop watch.
“You never seen a clock like this?”
“No.”
“You want me to tell you about it?”
Robert shrugged.
“You see that one’s moving?”
“Uh huh.”
“That goes around once, makes that one go around a
little bit, clicks over and then it goes around and then that
one’ll go.”
“Huh.”
Harold pointed out each hand. “That’s a second, that’s a
minute, that’s a hour.”
Robert looked more closely at it. Harold passed it to
him.
“You got to measure when things happen,” Harold said.
“I’m watching that one go.”
“Good.”
“Fast as hell,” said Robert.
“I suppose it is.”
“It’s a damn circle.”
27“Seconds go to a minute. Minutes go to an hour.”
Robert watched it until Harold took back the stopwatch
and they walked more.
“Was easier to make heads and tails of it when the day
used to end.”
“Why?”
“It became night time.”
Robert didn’t say anything to that.
“You around for that?” Harold asked him.
Robert shrugged.
“You around before the sun yolked?”
“No.”
“Huh.”
“I never heard about that.”
“Your pa never told you about night time?”
“My pa’s been dead for longer than that clock could
count. I don’t know nothing about what he told me or
didn’t.”
“Alright.”
They walked longer down the path.
“So what is it?”
“What’s what?”
“Nightime.”
Harold didn’t speak for some time and then he said,
“back before the sun blew. We had night. It’d get dark.
Sun’d go up and down. Moon would shine bright and
28there’d be a break from the heat. People’d sleep then. Like
living under a shadow.”
Robert still didn’t have anything to say to it.
“Critters’d come out and do what they did. Couldn’t see
nothing unless you had a light.”
“Guys get killed then?”
“They did.”
Robert thinks on it all and then says, “You got an
interest in keeping track of it with your notebook.”
“I suppose so.”
They walked onwards and the canopy became vast. And
then Harold said, “keeping track on how long my kid’s
been gone.”
Robert nodded.
“She’d be about your age. Give or take.”
“No she wouldn’t.”
“And why’s that?”
“Because I don’t know what my age is.”
“Alright boy.”
At a certain point there was a fuselage, belonged to a
rocket, it was torn at the bit. Engine parts, luggage,
mechanics and rows of chairs were sprawled around the
area.
29Many of the bodies were strapped into the chair and they
had rotted, their limbs were missing, they were burned and
they were dead.
Harold had put his hand against Robert’s chest and
stopped him from walking further.
“You think they got crashed?” Robert asked Harold.
“I don’t know.”
“You think a parasite came from the dirt and ate the ship
on take oﬀ?”
“I don’t know boy. Shut up.”
Robert walked towards the wreckage and saw the
corpses.
“Don’t go far,” Harold said.
“Says who?”
“I’m saying so.”
Robert stopped and looked at him.
“How long they been dead?”
“I don’t know.”
“You think they been dead a while?”
“I don’t know boy.”
They walked together, slowly, passing the mile of death.
Robert covered his nose and said, “these bastards reek
worse than a horse’s ass.”
“Boy, what is it with you and running your mouth oﬀ at
the dead?”
“I ain’t running my mouth at no one.”
30“You sure are.”
“Even if they were alive I wouldn’t care.”
“If they were alive I wouldn’t care either.”
“So what’s the diﬀerence?”
“Respecting the dead.”
“I don’t respect any dead men, else they wouldn’ta died.”
“Soldier respects the dead. You think otherwise?”
Robert listened to that and changed his mind about it.
Harold kept his hand on the mule.
“You recognize any of em?”
“No.”
“These folks all thought they’d hit the homestretch, they
were gonna get oﬀ this planet and then look, they all got
what was coming to them. That’s what I think. They’re
better oﬀ on the ground, fighting like us. Even if someone
came up to me and said hey, you come over and we’ll give
you the best seat on this ship and we’ll drive it wherever the
hell you want, but you know what I’d tell them? I’d tell
them to shut their damn mouth and I’d tell them to take
their ship and dump it because one way or another no one’s
getting anywhere. That’s what I’m saying.”
“I’ll keep that in mind,” Harold still looked through the
faces.
“You think that happened?”
“I don’t know.”
“You going on one of them ships?”
31“I don’t know.”
“What kind of idea is that? Look at all these damn
people.”
“Enough, boy.”
“I’m glad they all got killed.”
“That’s no thing to say.”
“It’s what I think.”
“My wife and my daughter went on one of these ships.”
“They on this one?”
“Shut up.”
“When do you think it crashed?”
“No more than a few months.”
“How do you know?”
“The way the bodies are rotten.”
“When did your woman and girl go?”
“Nine years back. Close to when the sun blew in the first
place.”
“They dead?”
“No.”
“Then I ain’t respecting them.”
Harold shook his head. He continued to look through
the corpses.
“How do you know they didn’t crashed and died like
these folks?”
“Boy.”
“What?”
32“They didn’t crash and die.”
“Why not?”
“They didn’t.”
“How’s anyone gonna know?”
“Because that’s what it is.”
“Well these folks probably said their goodbyes and
everyone thinks they went oﬀ happily ever after up into the
sky but instead that isn’t the truth at all is it?”
Robert saw Harold was hurt by thought of it but he
didn’t regret saying what he did. He thought it was good
that Harold felt hurt about it.
“Because that’s the truth. And that’s what it is. People
lose their family and they got to know it to be true so they
know what they’re up against. There’s no guarantee your
woman and kid got anywhere. They could be on this ship
for all you know. You better look close and see.”
“I told you to go on and shut your fuckin mouth.”
“I ain’t shutting my mouth. I watched both my brothers
and my dad get eaten alive by damn parasites and we never
were going anywhere, we never thought of leaving and we
stood our ground and there was nothing anyone could do,
so I don’t give a damn about anyone because I’m not
standing around crying am I? I’m pushing onward and
that’s what I’m gonna do.”
Harold looked at the boy and saw his pain and what he
had known.
33When he thought Harold wasn’t looking Robert took a
stick and jammed it into the eye of an old woman’s skull.
“Boy.”
Robert darted from the corpse.
“What?”
“What you doing?”
“Nothin.”
Harold saw what he had done but that old woman was
not his wife. Robert kicked the dirt and followed Harold
and the mule.
They walked through the canyon and Harold looked
back at Robert. He could see he was slowing down.
“When’d you eat last?” Harold asked him.
“I don’t know.”
“How’s your hunting skill?”
“Good.”
“What you know?”
“I got my ways.”
“Alright. You got a blade?”
“No. Just my knife.”
“You got a gun?”
“No.”
“Then how you going about it?”
Robert shrugged.
34“Maybe I’ll go back to that busted ship and eat that
woman’s head.”
Harold withheld a smirk from that comment. He went
to the mule and took a blade from the satchel. He showed it
to Robert.
“You don’t go kill me alright?”
Robert nodded.
Harold oﬀered him the blade and Robert took it.
“Alright boy, now let me ask you something.”
“Uh huh”
“What’s for dinner?”
Robert shrugged.
“You got to hunt us something to eat.”
“Ok.”
Harold sat down.
“What am I supposed to get?”
“I thought you could hunt.”
“It’s your blade.”
“No it ain’t. I just went and gave you it.”
Robert stopped. He looked diﬀerently at the blade and
said, “you mean it?”
Harold nodded and Robert held the blade proudly, like it
was his own.
“Well maybe you could let me know how you done it.”
“Done what?”
“Hunting.”
35“You know how to hunt or not?”
“I know.”
“So go ahead.”
“Maybe you could help me out I said.”
“You gonna make me stand up?”
Robert looked at Harold until he got up.
“Alright boy. Let’s go then.”
They continued onwards and found there were many
boulders in one area. They chose one and lay behind it and
watched into the horizon. They waited for anything that
moved that wasn’t the wind or their minds starving
themselves into believing there was something there that
wasn’t. Eventually there was a family of hyenas. They were
a mile ahead.
“Look!” Robert said.
“Alright.”
“That’s what we’re getting?”
“That’ll do.”
“You gonna shoot em?”
“Nope.”
“Can I shoot em?”
“Nope.”
“Toss a grenade?”
“Why’d we do that?”
“To kill em.”
36“Picking shrapnel out of every bite.”
“Can I get the rifle?”
“The blade’ll do.”
“You gonna make me kill it with the damn blade?”
“That’s how it’s done.”
“There’s a whole lot of them.”
“You got to pick one you can handle.”
“You want me to pick oﬀ the runt?”
“If that’s what you think.”
“We gonna go over there?”
“Yup.”
“We gonna use the mule as bait?”
“No. You go over there.”
“You’re not coming?”
“I’m staying back with the mule.”
Robert got up. He tried to look as brave as he knew
how. He said, “I knew one kid before and he had his own
cat. And when things weren’t looking too good for
everyone they were asking him about that cat and he said
there’s no way he’s going and eating his cat he’d rather die
himself. Now I’m not going and saying I’m gonna starve
but I’d be better oﬀ killing a man for my supper any day.”
“They’re making their way oﬀ if story time is about
done.”
Robert looked scared to go over to the hyenas.
“You doing it or not?”
37“I can do it.”
“Alright.”
“Well maybe you should come.”
“How come?”
“Because there’s a bunch of them and only one of me.”
Harold screwed the scope onto his rifle.
“You stay calm boy, I can get closer from back here.”
“You better not leave me hanging.”
“I ain’t leaving no one hanging.”
Robert took a deep sigh. He got up and his feet were
loud in the dirt.
“Boy.”
“What?”
“You make one wrong step we lose em.”
Robert became careful with the next step he took, he
stepped how Harold showed him and went towards to the
hyenas.
He trailed towards the hyenas as they climbed the rocks.
The little one went last and when he was going to climb
with the rest of them Robert took it by the scruﬀ.
The other hyenas snarled and howled and saw Robert
steal the runt but they were unable to climb back down the
steepness of the rocks.
Robert hid behind a boulder. The other hyenas looked
from the rocks, prowling around the dirt and snarling.
38Robert looked back to see if Harold was still there. Harold
kept them in his scope but still did not shoot.
“You got this boy. Come on now.”
Robert waited with the runt. He looked at it and held it
tightly to stop its thrashing and whining. He kept it quiet.
He held the runt and kept his elbow around its neck,
closing its air supply until the animal died. As Robert felt
the life leave the runt’s body he had tears streaming down
his face.
Robert brought the runt hyena back to Harold and
dropped it onto the ground.
Harold nodded at him.
Robert collected kindling and sticks and set them up to
cook. Harold could see that the boy was in no mood for
speaking.
“Decent hunting boy.”
Robert was angry to have killed the runt and did not
respond. They skinned the runt and cooked it and ate it
quietly.
“I found that generator on the side of the road,” Harold
muttered.
“Huh?” Robert asked him.
“The wagon.”
“You stole it?”
“Took it oﬀ a dead man.”
“The meat oﬀ his bones.”
39“I didn’t eat his flesh boy.”
“You eating flesh now.”
Harold shook his head.
“I was gonna sell that generator, trade it for some way to
go be with my wife and my daughter.”
Robert listened.
“But there’s not much anyone to buy it and there isn’t
much anyone left going oﬀ the planet who hasn’t already
gone.”
Robert chewed the meat.
“There’s no damn hope for this planet or anyone on it.
That’s what I think.”
Harold smiled at that.
“Is that how it is?”
“Uh huh. That’s why I’m going on to be a soldier. To go
down fighting. I’d kill anyone that got in my way.”
“Should’a killed me too then.”
“Nah.”
“Why not?”
“Because you’re a soldier too.”
“Maybe I was.”
“A soldier leaves his wife and his whole family behind to
fight and that’s what you did.”
Harold hadn’t seen it that way before.
“And you ended up teaching me more about being a
soldier than anyone else. So I won’t kill you for that.”
40Harold was quiet to that comment. After they ate the
animal and fed some to the mule they slept for a short time
before they continued on their way again.
The dirt changed color when they entered the valley and
it softened their steps. The air had become more still.
The mule turned its head. Harold followed its gaze and
the boy did also. There it was. In the distance they saw a
gargantuan parasite, a worm like creature with a single
hooked tooth that protruded from its skull.
Robert was taken by the sight of the beast and he
grasped the blade and ran towards the cliﬀside with every
intention to leap and sever its monstrous head. Harold
pulled him back and pinned him to the ground.
“Get oﬀ me. I’m gonna carve that bastard to shreds. Let
me go.”
Robert screamed and squirmed like the runt hyena and
he tried to escape Harold’s grip. He was blinded by a rage
to kill the beast that he saw.
“Boy. Stop.”
Robert could not overpower Harold but he was
determined to.
“Gonna get yourself killed,” Harold told him.
“Someone’s got to.”
Harold refused to let him go and Robert stabbed
Harold’s leg with the blade. Harold howled into the canyon
41but still did not release the boy. He held him down until the
parasite left their sight.
Harold stood and looked at his leg. Robert had nothing
to say to him. Robert’s face was covered in dirt.
Harold limped towards the mule.
“We gonna hunt that thing, there’s a way we can go
about it and there’s a way we could get ourselves killed.”
“I could’a killed it.”
“You want to kill it, you really want it dead, we make a
plan and we act on it. We kill it that way.”
Robert looked at him.
“You want to kill it like a soldier would, that’s how.”
Robert was quiet for a moment and then said, “well how
they show you to get them in the military?”
“Not jumping oﬀ cliﬀs with a blade.”
Harold went to the mule and unstrapped the second
rifle. He tossed it to Robert.
“Here.”
Robert caught the rifle and held it across is chest. He
tried hold it like he was fit to.
“You ever used one of those before?”
“Never have. But I know how.”
Harold nodded and said, “okay then.”
Harold opened the satchel and took the explosives that
the mule had been hauling. He organized them in the dirt
and took stock of what was there.
42There was a long wire, perhaps a severed power line.
“Alright you grab that end.”
Robert did so.
“And now we’ll each watch until it’s as far as it’ll go.”
“Okay.”
“And you stay put mule, and watch them explosives.”
The mule nodded.
Harold and Robert strung the cable until they were a
third mile apart.
“Alright come on back,” Harold yelled over to Robert.
They walked back to the mule. “Now we got to string these
up.”
Robert inspected all of the explosives and asked, “which
one’s the biggest?”
Harold pointed it out to him.
“That should go in the middle,” Robert said.
“Alright, string it there then.”
Robert did so. Harold got down with him and made sure
it was attached well.
“And what’s next then?” Harold asked him.
“Well how about those small ones going beside it.”
“Go ahead,” Harold said and Robert spent some time
attaching them. There were still two more pieces left.
Robert went ahead and attached those on either ends.
Harold looked out over the canyon and towards the valley.
43Robert finished attaching the explosives and looked
proud of his work.
“That’s how it’s done is it?” Harold asked him.
“Yup it is.”
Harold handed Robert a metal spike.
“Alright. We’re gonna tie these spikes in to either end
and then we’ll walk it over to that shallow point in the
canyon. That way it’ll hang low enough and we can trap the
bastard and blow him to smithereens.”
Harold pointed to where they would go and Robert
nodded.
“Good?”
“Good.”
“And boy.”
“Uh huh?”
“Either of us drops this thing we’re toast.”
“Okay.”
They each walked to either end of the line and took their
end and walked it over to the shallow end of the canyon.
Harold used the back of his rifle to beat the spike into
the dirt and Robert used a rock he had found.
Harold gave Robert a thumbs up when he finished and
Robert gave a thumbs up as well. The string of explosives
hung like lanterns over the canyon.
They met back where the mule was and they sat and
waited.
44“A bit like fishing,” Harold said.
“I never went fishing.”
“Well this is a bit like it.”
“Huh.”
“When I give you the go ahead you hit that trigger and
those explosives will rocket the bastard straight to the
pearly gates of hell.”
“I don’t mind that.”
“Me neither.”
They sat and they waited for the beast to return. Harold
recorded the time in his notebook. A few hours. It took
Robert that time to muster the courage but he decided to
say something to Harold.
“I was the one that told those bandits where you were.”
Harold did not respond on his impulse. Instead he
thought it over. And eventually said, “well that’s good of
you to own up to it.”
Robert was surprised by his reaction.
“You’re not gonna kill me dead where I stand?”
Harold shrugged, “you didn’t owe me nothing boy.”
Robert did not say anything.
And there it was, the bastard parasite.
45They leaned against a boulder with their rifles and
watched outwards at the hell that awaited them.
“Mister.”
“Boy.”
“I think I’m scared to go on with it all.”
“Well. I can say I agree with you there.”
“It’s bigger than I thought.”
“Uh huh.”
“You thinking of turning back?”
Harold thought it over and looked at Robert and saw
that his fear was desperate. He looked behind them, at all of
the ground they’d covered.
“You want to turn back?”
“No I don’t.”
“I won’t think less of you. We come a decent way you
and I.”
Robert looked unsure of what to do.
“Boy. I went and trained in the armed forces for some
time. And I knew what there was to know. I was going to
go across and fight alongside my brothers. Three older
brothers, I was the youngest. Only reason I was going was
to be along with them. And I was going along in the plane
but we got turned around mid flight and I never went to
war.”
“You never went into war?”
“The whole army was dead on the ground.”
46“The whole army?”
“Every last one of them. They spun us back. There was
no fight left.”
“They should have sent you in.”
“I would have agreed at the time.”
“And then you just went home?”
“That’s right. Back to Lotuspond.”
“What about your brothers?”
“Never saw them again.”
“They died in battle?”
“I’d supposed that was it.”
“That’s what happens to guys like us,” Robert said.
“I suppose it is.”
“But that’s what it takes to be a soldier right?”
“I never went to war, boy, and that makes us the same.
I’m no more a soldier than you are.”
Robert looked confused by this. He looked at Harold
and no longer saw the vet, he saw someone like himself.
“Well you know what, I don’t think we’re turning back
at this point,” Robert said to him.
Harold nodded.
“I didn’t come all this way and get trained up to be a
soldier for nothing.” Robert readied his rifle.
Harold again nodded. The fear of the bastard parasite
weighed heavy on his eyes. Harold took the stopwatch and
47handed it to Robert, “that’s a military grade stopwatch. You
go and hold onto it.”
Robert was honoured to have it.
“Okay soldier. No turning back now.”
“Hold on.”
“For what?”
“Gonna have a minute if that’s alright by you.”
“A minute. Alright”
Robert nodded.
Robert looked at the clock and watched the second hand
revolve and Harold watched as the beast came closer.
“Ok. That was a minute,” said Robert. Robert snapped
the stopwatch closed.
“Alright.”
“You gonna mark it in your notebook?”
“I’ll get to it.”
Robert nodded.
“You see that vantage point up on the ridge there?”
Harold pointed towards it.
“Uh huh.”
“That’s where we’re going.”
Robert looked courageous, he nodded again.
They got up and headed towards the valley. The mule
followed.
They moved quietly as trained and got to the ridge.
48They got to the vantage point and they stood at the top
of the hill. They continued to try and sneak onwards until
the mule slipped on the rocks. Robert held onto the mule
and helped him from falling downward but dropped the
explosive trigger.
Harold tried to grab Robert to stop him but Robert ran
downward towards the trigger.
The beast came closer and Harold unloaded his weapon
against the parasite.
Robert got the trigger and Harold yelled towards him,
“fire!”
Robert hit the trigger and the explosion came and
erupted and wiped the parasite out. The beast swung down
and beat into the ground, the dirt hiccuping as it hit.
Harold rushed down with the mule towards Robert.
Robert stared oﬀ in disbelief. This was the redemption he
had known. The threshold of it.
“You did it boy. You went and did it!” Harold was
laughing and was overjoyed.
A smile overtook Robert’s face and he put his fists into
the air and began to yell in victory.
They were overjoyed in the shadow of their the victory
until the beast returned. It swooped upward, its mouth
agape, Robert turned and saw the depths of hell reign over
49him. He ran fearlessly towards the parasite, unloading his
weapon in his battle cry until he was swallowed into the
parasite’s jaw.
Harold was devastated and unleashed his rage, emptying
all the ammunition he had. Until he stood against the mule
and gathered a new weapon. He fixed a rocket onto a small
piston and aimed it towards the parasite. It fired oﬀ and cut
through the parasite’s cranium. The explosion echoed
through the canyon until the beast collapsed and no longer
moved. The beast lay limp, bile excreted from its throat and
poured into the dirt.
Harold defeatedly leaned against the mule. He collapsed
to his knees and wept and stayed that way in the dirt for
some time.
There was only quiet and stillness left.
The boy was gone.
50III
Grover drank murky booze from a glass jar and passed it
to Kelvin. The men stumbled and Kelvin vomited into the
yard. They hit a baseball bat against a metal pole. Grover
wrestled Kelvin to the ground.
Inside of the house Grover opened the fridge. There was
nothing there and so he slammed the door shut.
“Kelvin.”
“What?”
“Why don’t we got any food.”
“We ate it.”
“Fuck man.”
“I’ll go out and get some.”
“Let’s fucking go.”
They sped down the road in their yellow truck. Kelvin
smoked from his pipe, a resin stained plastic tube. He
opened the window and put his head outside and the air
blasted his hair and beard backward as they ripped down
the highway.
They found a perch that overlooked the highway. They
lay on the ground and held binoculars and watched the
road. After some time there was a tanker truck.
Grover saw that Kelvin’s face was passed out in the dirt
and he hit Kelvin and said, “wake up shit bird.”
“Fuck oﬀ,” said Kelvin.
51“Fucking truck there. You see that?”
Kelvin took the binoculars from him.
“We seen that truck before shit bird,” Kelvin said.
“Call me shit bird again and I’ll rip your skull out of
your face you fuck. Come on.”
They ran back to their truck and went after the tanker.
They caught up to it and drove parallel to it. Kelvin stood
out of his seat, swung open the passenger door and he
readied himself to jump.
“If you kill that fucking guy there will be hell to pay I
mean that Kelvin you hear me?” Grover yelled to him, “do
not kill that mother fucker. God is my witness. Do not
forget that.”
Kelvin understood and leapt across the road and grabbed
onto the tanker door. The road beneath him moved like a
rapid current and he tried to break through the tanker
driver’s window with the binoculars.
The tanker driver was a large man, he grit his teeth and
screamed and slammed on the brake, sending Kelvin flying
oﬀ the truck. Kelvin hit the pavement and knocked his
head. The tanker slammed the gas and would have flattened
Kelvin into possum soup if he’d landed a foot closer.
Grover skid the truck around and drove directly towards
the tanker, but Grover was too chicken and he swerved out
of the way. The tanker was soon out of sight and Grover
and Kelvin were left in the dust.
52Grover screamed and cursed repeatedly and punched the
steering wheel. He got out of the truck and stomped along
the road. He went to Kelvin and pulled him oﬀ the ground
and Kelvin screamed in pain, his arm had popped out of its
socket.
Grover lifted him oﬀ the ground and together they
popped his shoulder back into place.
“I’d rip my damn arm oﬀ and shove it up my own ass for
all I care,” said Kelvin.
“Ain’t that a fact.”
“It is.”
“You colossally fucked that.”
Kelvin was unhappy to hear that. He thought and paced
and said, “I wanna call my cousin.”
“Then call him.”
On the way back they stopped at a phone and Kelvin
called his cousin. Grover waited for him in the truck.
Kelvin came back from using the phone and he had
ripped a plot of dead grass where he was. He tossed it into
the back of the truck.
“Steep that grass’d be good for us.”
Grover did not respond to that. They drove home the
rest of the way and Kelvin smoked the resin from his pipe
and handed it to Grover every now and again.
53They arrived back at Grover’s ma’s house and Kelvin
took the grass from the truck.
“Ma, we got supper,” Grover yelled to her on the porch.
She was in her rocking chair, connected to the IV, sickly
and frail, her eyes sunken, she was still and her breath was
shallow.
Grover saw that her head was flaccid and slumped
downward, her chin was pressed at her chest. He saw that
her IV was flashing that the battery was no good.
“The fuck you doing out here ma?”
He took her brittle frame in his arms and kicked the
screen door in and brought her back inside.
He lay her down onto her chair and desperately plugged
the IV into a large battery that sat on the ground. The
battery did not charge and Grover continued to scream and
he put her body onto the couch.
He went to the kitchen and threw the utensil drawer
onto the ground and tossed a toaster at the window. He
went back onto the porch.
Kelvin dragged a car battery in from the yard and they
brought it towards the couch. There was battery acid on the
coils and they could not connect it to the IV. Kelvin put the
coils into his mouth and cleaned them oﬀ. He connected
the IV to the battery and Grover’s ma’s eyes fluttered open.
She awoke and Grover screamed at her, “What the fuck
54were you thinking? Never fucking go out there. Never.
Never fucking do it again. I told you enough times.”
Grover went into the kitchen and took a plastic tube
from the cupboard. He smoked with it and then gave it to
his mother. She also inhaled some. She became more awake
but still did not speak. She held it towards Kelvin who took
it and smoked what was left.
Kelvin and Grover sat on the porch and Grover chugged
a murky liquid from a mason jar. It was made from the
grass they brought in from the road. Kelvin picked at the
injury he had gotten from falling onto the road.
“We need to be gettin some help to your ma,” Kelvin
said.
“Fuck oﬀ and don’t talk about my fuckin ma.”
“Our batteries are right fucked. I see it. She sees it. She’s
going out onto the porch every damn day to burn out and
die.”
Grover swung at Kelvin but missed.
“What did I say? Did I say to squirrel fuck my dead dog,
you fucking ghost dick? Fuck oﬀ.”
Grover puked oﬀ the balcony from drinking the grass
nectar.
“My cousin Elwood was talking to me. When I called
him today,” Kelvin said.
“Fuck oﬀ I said.”
55“You ever went in Lotuspond?”
“Never cared to and never will care to, I’d say fuck
Lotuspond thoroughly and eternally. How about oﬀering
that up as some advice for your bitch cousin?”
“Well I want to tell you something Grover and I hope
you can listen to what I’m saying. And if you can’t listen to
me then that’s what it is but at least I went ahead and gave it
a shot to say it.”
“What the fuck kind of thing are you going on about?”
“Well Grover, it’s about my family and I don’t mean
where I came from I mean you and your ma have happened
to be about the only family I got for these past years and
your ma she’s damn near been a ma to me too in case you
didn’t know that.”
“I’m not hearing anything of what you’re saying man.”
“Alright,” Kelvin said.
“Kelvin, you know that time we had that bat stuck in the
outhouse when we were working in the field and folks went
to drop a deuce and their ass got attacked by a shit covered
bat?”
“Uh huh?”
“That’s how I’m feeling now, like you’re an outhouse
shitbat and I’m locked in the damn plastic container. But
I’ll tell you something, when I heard about that fuckin shit
I took it upon myself and I went and shit in the dirt and
buried it up like a cat. No way I was getting vampire ass.”
56Kelvin smoked more from the pipe.
“Some guy got his wang bit oﬀ and became known as
menstruation station. Wang fell down into that outhouse
pit never to be seen again.”
“Well you said they got some thing in fuckpond so what
is it?”
“My cousin Elwood told me they got an AF generator.”
“The fuck is AF?”
“AF generator is a good fucking machine. Could power
an old style slaughterhouse conveyer belt let alone your
Ma’s machine. Damn jet engine,” said Kelvin.
“Elwood is fucking killed dead man.”
“I’m telling you those AF generators something special.
They run oﬀ nothing. They power themselves oﬀ some
fuckin shit. They got it in Lotuspond and we got to be
there. Some guy carting around a wagon with a damn
mule.”
“I told you Elwood is fucking killed dead man. Now shut
the fuck up. I’m sick of fucking hearing about it. I’m
fucking done with this fucking shit. Fuck oﬀ man. Fuck
oﬀ.”
“That’s not my cousin. That’s a diﬀerent Elwood. My
cousin is Elwood Sherwood not Elwood Jackie Hunter who
you’re thinking.”
“Well fuck him both Jackie and Sherwood.”
Kelvin took the pipe and prepared it again.
57“Grover. I know you go on and love your ma more than
what a man can know and my ma, I loved her so I know
that brother and that’s why I’m putting it on the line to go
in and help making sure your ma comes out alright.”
Kelvin took a hit oﬀ the pipe.
“You’re the closest near thing to a brother I ever got in
this life. So I’ll tell you this Grover, I’ll go down the road
with you.”
“How come you never told me about that when you
spoke to him when I waited in the truck.”
“I forgot he told me about that.”
Kelvin took another hit oﬀ the pipe. He handed it to
Grover. He took a hit oﬀ of it and coughed his lungs out.
“Kelvin, I’ll ask you something.”
Kelvin took back the pipe and inspected it.
“This road we’re looking at. It’s always the same damn
road.”
“Uh huh.”
“You think that it is?”
“It’s the road.”
“That is the road god put forth for us. Would you say
that’s true?”
Kelvin looked away. He was embarrassed about the
subject.
“Would you say that’s the road god put in front of us,
Kelvin?”
58“I don’t know I said.”
“Then what the fuck did you say?”
“It’s the road.”
“It’s what road?”
“It’s the road god put.”
Grover smiled and said, “yes.” He chugged the rest of the
grass nectar and smashed the jar onto the ground and then
he said, “that’s an amen fuckhole. That’s an amen. You
want to go to Lotuspond so bad you little fucker? Alright
man. Hold on to your fucking dick man and keep from
pissing out a chicken’s eye. Because son, get your gerry can.
You said it. We’re going to fuckin Lotuspond.”
Kelvin cawed and howled and slammed his fist onto the
deck. Grover went inside of the house for a moment and
Kelvin went into the yard to get the gerry can. They got
into the truck and sped down the road.
Kelvin sat in the roadhouse. There was another man at
the bar and he looked similar to Kelvin.
“I’m an epileptic,” the man said.
“Why man, why are you an epileptic?” Kelvin asked
him.
“If I eat peanuts I’ll get fuckin killed.”
“I’ll tell you something man.”
“Alright.”
59“If I had a damn jar of peanuts I’d throw them in your
face.”
“The hell you would.”
“Damn right I would. In fact I think I’m gonna spend
my life becoming a peanut farmer just so that you get
fuckin killed,” Kelvin said to him.
Kelvin watched the mirror above the bartender. He
could see into the parking lot where Grover snuck with a
gerry can to the biggest truck in the lot. This was the truck
that belonged to the man that Kelvin spoke to.
“What about squids?” the man asked Kelvin.
“Didn’t saying fuck all about squids.”
“You’d better think on it.”
“I don’t know jack shit about squids and don’t fucking
ask me about it.”
“You know what the thing about squids is?”
“What’s that thing about squids?”
“Squids, well. I’m allergic to them mother fuckers too,”
the man said.
“Well I ain’t no fisherman and I don’t intend to be. So
consider yourself free of that.”
“Good.”
Kelvin waited until Grover began to syphon the gasoline
from the truck.
“And I ain’t no fuckin squid farmer but I got some
decent words of advice for you.”
60“What’s that?”
“Get squiding.”
Kelvin took his glass and smashed it onto the man’s
head. He then got oﬀ his barstool and walked to the other
end of the bar. He whipped an eyeless man across the face
with a billiards stick and tried to flip the billiards table but
he was not strong enough to lift it. It was Kelvin’s intention
to create a distraction for Grover as he syphoned the gas.
A man put Kelvin into a chokehold and Kelvin reached
for the man’s pistol and grabbed it while being tossed across
the table and landing onto the hardwood.
Kelvin lay on the ground and another man lifted him oﬀ
the ground. Kelvin head butt that man and sent him
spiraling in a nose bleed. Kelvin took a mirror oﬀ the wall,
smashed it onto the man’s head and in one of the broken
pieces of mirror he saw where the pistol had gone. Kelvin
took the pistol and held it in front of the man’s forehead
but Grover screamed at him from outside.
“Kelvin. Drop that pistol motherfucker. And get oﬀ
your ass, we need to fuck oﬀ.”
Kelvin pocketed the pistol and went to climb out the
window. Someone grabbed him and he stomped them with
his boot and he gnawed at one of their fingers.
Grover walked over to the window and booted whoever
that was back into the roadhouse and ripped Kelvin from
the frame.
61“Fucking go,” Grover said and pulled Kelvin up. They
ran the gerry cans back to the truck.
The patrons and the bartender came out of the bar and
fired some rounds at them but to no avail, the truck ripped
out of the parking lot and sped towards the highway.
Grover drove fast and Kelvin sat in the passenger seat.
“We got fuel, we got respect, we got everything a man
needs for the day. But you know something Grover, I got to
take a piss out the window, that’s what I need.”
“I don’t wanna talk right now.”
“I’m going to piss out the window.”
Grover pulled over and they both got out and began to
piss in a ditch.
“Kelvin.”
“What?”
“Remember something that I tell you.”
“Uh huh.”
“What I’m going to tell you is something you need to
remember and consider as we go down the road and as you
reflect upon the day.”
“Ok.”
“What I’m telling you Kelvin, is that god, god Kelvin, is
forgiving.”
“Ok.”
“You understand what I’m saying.”
62Kelvin did not respond. He only continued to piss.
“You understand what I’m saying?”
Kelvin was at the end of his piss but he stood there, still
with his fly open and said, “damn it Grover I already am a
killer. I’m a fucking killer, I killed four men in my life and
I’d kill more if you hadn’t stopped me.”
“I’m telling you one fucking thing Kelvin and you listen
to me when I say it. God is forgiving.”
Kelvin held the top of his pants in his fist.
“You understand what I’m saying?” Grover asked him.
“Damn right he is.”
“And he has given us a sign. To follow the road. To get
that machine for Ma. And that’s what we’re gonna do,”
Grover took the gerry can to refill the truck. He poured the
gas into the tank and handed the gerry can to Kelvin to put
back. Kelvin drank the gas from the gerry can and Grover
slapped him and took back the gerry can.
“That ain’t for drinking.”
Kelvin yanked it back from him and chugged more of it.
“Kelvin. Stop that shit.”
Kelvin then vomited the gasoline onto the road and
laughed.
“You know why I drink that shit man,” he said to
Grover.
“I got no interest in that.”
“I got to tell you Grover. I got to.”
63“Well then shut up and fuckin tell me then.”
“I drink that shit because of one time. You ever had
crabs in your dick man?”
“I ain’t got that shit man. I don’t fuck piles of horseshit
on the road like you.”
“I never fucked a pile of horseshit in the road.”
“I know you did because I saw you did. No wonder you
got crabs in your dick though I reckon you put your dick in
the sand getting crabs.”
“The reason I drink from those gerry cans is I got a dick
that burns from who I fucked because I fuck who I want
when I want and you know something Grover, when I
drink that gasoline I piss fire.”
“Pissin fire from the burning crabs in your dick.”
“That’s right. That’s what I said.”
“Well I understand that and I respect your inclination
but you know what?”
“What.”
“Never drink our fucking jerry cans again. Never.”
Grover was angry as hell and he went back into the
truck. He slammed the door.
The truck arrived in Lotuspond. Grover drove slowly,
patrolling through the street, past the bank, the corner
store and the police station.
64Kelvin asked Grover, “would you say this town is a piece
of shit or is it better than our town?”
“I don’t live in a fuckin town. I live on our own farm and
that has nothing to do with anyone but my ma.”
“Well I don’t live in no fuckin town neither.”
“Is that right?”
“That’s right.”
“Well where you live then?”
“I live in the farm.”
“Says who?”
Kelvin looked upset to hear this. He tried to smoke from
the pipe but there was no resin left. He became angry and
punched the dashboard.
“Hey fuck, don’t mess with the truck that way,” Grover
yelled at him, “or any fuckin way for that matter.”
Kelvin opened the truck door and walked onto the road.
Grover drove along beside him, continuing at a snail’s
pace. Kelvin went in the opposite direction of Grover, he
kicked the dirt and was very angry.
Grover watched him from the rear view mirror.
“Alright fucker.”
Grover turned the truck around and drove beside Kelvin.
“Ok buddy, what’s the big deal?”
“I ain’t talking to anyone right now so fuck oﬀ,” said
Kelvin.
Grover kept driving beside him.
65“Fuckin bitch,” Kelvin kicked the truck.
“We’ll get you some more to smoke Kelvin. Alright? We
always do.”
Kelvin kicked the truck harder, “fuck you. Fuck oﬀ.”
“Alright buddy. Just take a moment. Take a second.”
Grover then got out of the truck. He didn’t park it or
take it out of gear, the truck kept moving down the road
without anyone in it.
“Okay buddy.”
Grover gave Kelvin a hug but Kelvin pushed him away.
Grover would not accept that and Grover hugged him again
and he said, “it’s okay Kelvin,” until Kelvin wept. “You live
on the farm. Okay? You live on the farm,” said Grover.
The truck kept going down the street, going towards one
of the shops. It crashed into the window and ruined the
glass.
They returned to the truck and drove on each street in
Lotuspond and only saw abandonment and desolation.
Grover was patient and diligent in the search and Kelvin
was tired. Kelvin’s eyes dozed oﬀ and Grover let his friend
sleep.
Grover slowed down and noticed a section of the power
lines that had been stripped. He found it curious and slowed
the truck down to a crawl. Grover admired the idea of
taking those supplies. He muttered to Kelvin that it was a
66good idea that they should consider one day. He spoke
quietly as Kelvin slept.
In some time there was a boy walking along the side of
the road. He was kicking the dirt up. Grover drove towards
him and spoke to him through Kelvin’s window side.
“Day to you sir,” Grover said, this woke Kelvin.
The boy was Robert and he stopped and looked
dubiously at Grover.
“Say, you alright?” Grover asked Robert.
“Nothing wrong with me.”
“I got a question to run by you if you wouldn’t mind in
that.”
“What kind of question?”
“Well you see, we’re looking for a buddy of ours.
Haven’t seen him in a little while and we were a bit
worried. He didn’t show up at our usual meeting spot so we
hopped in the truck and wanted to come for a drive and see
if he was alright.”
Robert was unsure if he should be trusting of these two
men.
“What kind a buddy you looking for then?” Robert
asked them.
“He’s going around with his wagon and his mule.”
“Huh.”
67“You know anybody fitting that description?” Grover
asked.
Robert did not respond immediately in a way that was
clear to Kelvin and Grover that he did know something.
“You bandits?”
Kelvin smiled at that question, his eyes looked
exhausted.
“You got anything to trade me for it?” Robert asked.
Kelvin held the pistol he stole from the roadhouse. He
closed one eye and aimed it down the road.
“Trade me for that pistol,” Robert said.
Kelvin smiled again.
Robert could see in that moment that these were not
patient men and they would not give him the pistol. Robert
said, “I’ll tell you something, I can see that you aren’t the
most patient fellas and the truth is I’m not that diﬀerent
either. I got places to go and I don’t want to stand here
running my mouth all day. So keep your damn pistol for all
I care.”
“Alright boy.”
“You got your own reasons for making a buddy out of
that old bastard but I’ll to you what, that mule’s got a poor
hell of a time being stuck with him. Go up the road by the
field, you’ll see him. He’s got his shovel and he’s digging
through the dirt.”
“Thanks kid,” Grover said.
68Kelvin winked at him and they drove oﬀ leaving the boy
in their dust.
69IV
They’d drove to the field that the boy told them and saw
the mule in the field. They went to the mule and to the
man, Harold. He buried the sheriﬀ in the dirt.
Kelvin stepped towards the mule and grappled the shovel
from the man’s hands and hit him across the cheek with it.
He hit him a number of times until Grover stopped him
and told him that god was his witness. They stole the
wagon and loaded it onto the truck.
They sped down the highway. The truck rattled like a
tambourine hooked on a paint mixer.
Eventually they were cleared oﬀ and Grover stopped the
truck. Kelvin rushed out and ripped oﬀ the tarp. He was
overjoyed and said, “this fuckin thing Grover man. This
fuckin thing you got no idea about what we got here.”
“Get the jizz from your dick man,” Grover said.
“I ain’t got that.”
“Sure you don’t.”
“You got to understand this thing man.”
“Uh huh.”
“This is a damn beast, some kind of fuckin thing that
could power a factory and some old bastard was carting it
around with a donkey? You got to be kidding me. What a
70sick fuckin world man. What a sick fuckin world,” Kelvin
laughed and flipped the switches, trying to power it up.
“Go easy fucknut,” said Grover.
Kelvin booted the thing and said, “damn thing won’t
turn on.”
“Press the buttons.”
Kelvin did that and some combination caused it to turn
on. Kelvin climbed on top of the generator, it rumbled and
caused him to vibrate and caused his voice to shake out of
control, but still he yelled at the top of his lungs, into the
road and into the horizon, “behold the power Grover.
Behold.” Kelvin let out a loud and victorious scream and
Grover stared at the generator, it dizzied his eyes as it
rumbled.
Kelvin jumped oﬀ the truck and tumbled into the dirt.
“Your cousin Tilda know any gun racks?”
“No cousin Tilda?”
“The one who isn’t the dead man.”
“That’s a damn woman’s name Tilda.”
“Whatever that fucker’s name was.”
“Cousin Elwood?”
“The fuck can I know what you’re thinking?”
“Ain’t know about no Tilda that’s for certain.”
“Best get another few pistols. Whether those Tilda’s or
not.”
“Uh huh. And by a few that’s gotta be a plenty few.”
71Kelvin retrieved some tubing and fiddled it with the
generator.
“What the fuck are you doing?” Grover asked him.
“Got to make this truck going.”
Kelvin attached the generator to the truck’s engine.
Grover paid little attention, instead he watched towards the
horizon.
“Just you wait Grover,” Kelvin said, “you’re gonna fuck
yourself oﬀ the face of this damn planet when you got an
idea about what’s going on here. You’re gonna consider this
fuckhole world Grover, that fuckin squid farming guy was
going on about liquidation and shit but you know what
Grover, that fuckin guy doesn’t know shit. He’s a fuckin
bitch and I’m going to kick his ass one day. I’m going to
fucking kill his ass and crush his skull between my hands.”
“The fuck are you saying man?” Grover knew that
Kelvin’s excitement had gotten the best of him.
“I got some fuckers we can rob. They live in the house.”
“What house?”
“It’s called the house.”
“Alright, what you want, to rob their chinaware and
teacups?”
“They got weapons.”
“Alright. We can rob those fuckers in the house.”
“But Grover man.”
“What?”
72“Think about it this way.”
“What?”
“Whatever you want from now on, you think it, we will
handle it and get it man. That’s what I’m saying.”
“Need’n pistols and guns,” said Grover.
“Pistols and guns. Okay my man. That’s it then. That’s
how it’ll go.”
“Get in the fucking truck Kelvin.”
Kelvin finished what he was doing with the generator
and the truck and the rumbling became something
unprecedentedly nuclear. The windshield rattled in a way
that the tambourine and the paint mixer did no justice.
The truck ripped down the road, the engine burned to
the limit and Kelvin screamed at the top of his lungs, “This
is fuckin it man. This is fucking it.”
Grover also looked exhilarated and yelled, “any roadkill
will be fucking knocked into outer cunt of fuckhole soup,”
Grover laughed and he screamed in ecstasy. The boys
laughed as they burned rubber.
They drove much slower as they approached the house.
There was barbed wire tangled around a guard tower and
many trucks parked beyond the gate.
“I’m gonna toss a gas can at this fucker,” Kelvin said. He
reached for the gerry can.
“Alright.”
73“I’ll tell you the plan.”
“What you got. Piss fire?”
“Fuckin eh man.”
“That’s your plan?”
“Ok. Listen up, here is it.”
“Go on champ,” Grover said to Kelvin.
“Alright, here it is. The plan. First we got to ask them,
we got to say hey man, we’re here to make a trade and we’ll
give you this AF generator and then you guys give us the
weapons. And then they’ll say ok we heard of you, we
know you’re bandits and we know you show respect and
they will trade us for the generator but then we cross those
fuckin assholes and steal all their fuckin shit.”
“Alright. Alright.”
“You think that’ll do?”
“Should be enough.”
“Okay, but I’ll tell you something Grover.”
“What?”
“They are known killers and if we go in and kill em now
then a lot less people will get killed down the line because
of it.”
“Kelvin.”
“What?”
“Fucking get it in your head dipfuck that’s not the way
this is going.”
“Why the fuck not?”
74“Listen to me fuckhead. You think on this for two
seconds before you open your mouth again. You listen to
me,” Grover said.
“What?”
“Those fuckers go around killing mother fuckers, is that
right?”
“That’s right,” Kelvin said.
“I said shut the fuck up.”
“I didn’t say a damn thing.”
“What I’m trying to tell you, if you would listen is that
they go around killing mother fuckers the same way you
done in the past. Uh huh, nod your head if you get that.”
Kelvin nodded his head.
“But god is forgiving Kelvin. And they can be forgiven.
You know why?”
“No.”
“Because if they can be forgiven then so can you man.
Do you fucking get that? Ya’ll get forgiven in the same
book of god. That’s what I’m saying.”
Kelvin nodded at that and then he climbed into the back
of the truck.
“What the fuck are you doing?” Grover asked Kelvin.
“I told you man. I’m gonna toss a gas can at this fucker.”
As Grover drove towards the gate Kelvin lit the gerry can
on fire and tossed it into the guard tower. Within a moment
it exploded and the guard screamed and was on fire himself.
75He screamed in agony. Kelvin got out of the truck and
tackled the shotgun from the guard’s hands.
Kelvin was about to kill the guard but Grover screamed
at him, “hey fuck.” Grover got out of the truck and the
guard was burned alive but Grover stamped out the flames.
Kelvin inspected the guard’s shotgun.
“Come on,” Grover said to the guard, but the guard
could not speak. “Come and get up man. You’re okay,”
Grover said to him.
The guard was passed out. Kelvin said, “you want me
to?” and he held the shotgun to the guard, whose skin was
badly damaged and deformed. Grover took his pistol and
put it to Kelvin’s head and screamed, “no fuckin killing!
Kelvin. For the last fucking time fuckwall. I will fuck your
ass.”
“This man is a known fucking killer,” Kelvin said.
“Did I say I gave a fuck about this man?” Grover stared
Kelvin down until they got back into the truck and drove
towards the house.
They avoided the windows and put their backs against
the paneling. Kelvin held the shotgun and Grover had the
roadhouse pistol and the second gerry can.
Kelvin looked into the window and said, “what the
fuck?”
“What?” Grover asked him.
76“Those guys are fuckin chilling man.”
Grover looked into the window also. He saw that the
men were slumped into their couches looking like
burnouts. They snuck towards the door. Grover gave a nod
to Kelvin.
Kelvin kicked in the front door and held the shotgun and
said, “alright fuckbirds, I ain’t gonna kill a single one of you
on account of Grover here and his thoughts on the word of
god.”
The men hardly noticed him, they sat motionless. The
table in the middle of the room was covered in pipes and
drugs.
“We came here to make a trade but that man in the guard
tower was acting like a complete fuck so I called him out,”
Kelvin was expecting some kind of reaction. Grover stood
in the doorway.
“We’re here to trade you this AF generator we got in
our truck for the weapons you got,” said Kelvin.
Still the men remained motionless. “They stoned
themselves paralyzed,” Kelvin said to Grover.
“Uh huh,” said Grover.
The men said nothing in response.
“Alright then, listen up you fucking guys, you better
learn to eat your vegetables.”
Kelvin went towards the table in the middle of the room.
He took the drugs. One of the men reached his hand
77outward to try and stop Kelvin, but the man could hardly
move an inch. He muttered something inaudible.
“Jesus wept,” Grover said, “these fucking guys man.”
Grover searched around the house while Kelvin watched
the men. Grover yelled at Kelvin from the other room.
“Kelvin.”
“What?”
“These fucking guys man.”
“You can say that again Grover.”
Grover then came out from the hallway holding an
assortment of rifles and automatic weapons. Kelvin was
gleeful to see it.
“I’m carrying these out to the truck,” Grover said.
Kelvin poured gasoline onto the carpet and tossed the
gerry can at the wall.
“I got an idea,” Kelvin yelled to Grover.
“What?”
“I’m gonna put some gasoline on their pipe too. So when
they go ahead and smoke it then it all goes up.”
“Uh huh.”
“You know what I’m saying?”
“I get it.”
“Because some guys can’t help themselves in smoking
what they do. Even if they went and tried not to. There’s
no stopping him. You want to know how I know?
“How’s that?”
78“Because I’m a fucking guy just like that. And now, one
of these fucking guys, he’s got to light that pipe and then
they all torch them fucking selves and that’s what I call
god’s will my brethren.”
“That it may be.”
As Grover continued to load the weapons into the truck
Kelvin aimed the shotgun at one of the guy’s head. He had
his hand on the trigger and he could hardly resist squeezing
it but was stopped by Grover’s whistle. Grover tossed
another bag of drugs at Kelvin.
“My god,” Kelvin was thrilled to see how full the bag
was.
“That’s damn right.”
Kelvin opened the bag and inhaled some of the drugs as
Grover walked the last shipment out.
“Alright say goodbye,” Grover said.
“Fare the well amigos.”
Kelvin walked out of the house and got back into the
truck and they drove back the way they came.
They drove down the road and drank and filled
themselves with all of the drugs they had found. The
weapons they stole from the house were piled behind them.
Grover was so inebriated that he could not drive
forwards, he swerved along the highway and they laughed.
“Drive along that road,” Kelvin said.
79“I ain’t driving along no fuckin road. We’re going to the
roast pit,” said Grover.
“The roast pit? The fucking roast pit?” Kelvin screamed.
“Shut up, fuck.”
Kelvin put the pistol to Grover’s head, “we need’a go
back for your Ma Grover.”
Grover took the barrel and held it to his head. “Fucking
shoot it then,” said Grover, “huh?”
Grover flipped the pistol around and shot the passenger
window out. The blast blew out Kelvin’s ear and blinded
him.
Grover laughed and said, “Kelvin, for fuck’s sake man,
I’m thinking it’s about supper time, and you know what
my Ma is gonna want more than any other fuckin thing?
Kelvin looked delirious and unable to understand what
Grover was saying until he took the pipe and smoked from
it again.
“A three piece fuckin meal!”
At the roast pit Grover was much more inebriated than
Kelvin had ever seen. His eyes were possessed by something
abhorrent and diabolical.
They were among dozens of others who stood at the
roast pit.
80There was an overgrown hog in the center of the table, it
was charred and its flesh was soft. Kelvin took a bottle of
booze from a man’s hand and chugged it.
The man tried to injure Kelvin but Grover put a gun to
his head and said, “I’m not a killer mother fucker,” Grover
pushed the gun into the man’s head. The other men saw
what he was doing and they reached for their weapons. “Do
I look like a killer to you?” Grover asked the man.
The man nodded and Grover said, “well I ain’t no
fucking killer and I ain’t here to ask any fuckin questions.”
Grover shot the man in his ear and the man cried out.
Another man approached with a large machete and
swung it towards Grover. Kelvin used a peculiar looking
weapon that was triangular in shape and it caused a beam of
light to remove the flesh from the man’s skin.
The machete dropped onto the ground and the man
screamed in agony. Kelvin took in his suﬀering and Grover
was seemingly too obliterated to understand it.
Kelvin took the machete and the triangular weapon and
in a fit of gratuitous rage, he overpowered the men in a
blind fury. The light that emit from the weapon strobed
against his face and he turned the men into dog meat. He
used the machete to lacerate the men’s foreheads, to slice
their abdomens and to carve out their spines.
Grover walked to the end of the room, towards a throne
that overlooked the roast pit. While inebriated beyond
81comprehension on the drugs they stole from the house,
Grover was even more wasted by the power that consumed
him.
“What victory reigns before us.”
Grover stood at the throne and Kelvin patrolled amongst
the men who lay on the ground. Kelvin was blind with rage
and there was blood covering his face.
“When I am king there is no death. When I am king
there is only god and the word of god and the rule of god,”
Grover said.
Grover slumped into the throne and looked outwards
onto his kingdom, “and why then do I sit here in your
throne? And why then do I sit here with your feast? And
why then do I sit here with your kingdom at my whim?
Because I followed the road that god lay out for me. I
followed the road and no adversary could stand at my foot.”
Kelvin walked to the spit roasted hog that was sprawled
in the middle of the table. He looked into the pig’s hollow
face and stared into its eyes and aimed to identify its soul.
Grover said, “and what now that this kingdom has fallen
at my whim? And what now that god has made this my
kingdom? And what now that god has made me the king of
all that he rules. I am the fucking king of all that I have ever
seen in my life. I am the fucking king god of earth and I will
fuck anyone who does not bow before me. I am king. I AM
GROVER THE KING.”
82Kelvin stabbed his machete through the hog’s skull and
reached into its face. He pulled a handful of the meat from
the hog’s mind and devoured it.
When Kelvin awoke he saw the limbs and blood of the
men who had bled out and died. He saw king Grover, who
wore the hog’s carcass as a cape and lay naked covered in
excrement and the hog’s flesh.
“Grover,” Kelvin said.
Grover muttered, “fuck oﬀ.”
“Wake up man come on.”
“Fuck oﬀ.”
Grover’s eyes were sunken, he was more incapacitated
than Kelvin had imagined. Grover was blind to the death
that haunted his kingdom.
“Come on buddy,” Kelvin lifted him and carried him
through the kingdom, over the blood and limbs and
intestines of the men.
Kelvin carried his friend into the driver’s seat of the
truck. He strapped his seatbelt and got into the passenger
seat.
“Okay Grover, time to go.”
Grover’s eyes fluttered but did not open.
“Come on Grover, buddy.”
83Kelvin took Grover’s hand and put it onto the key and
got him to start the truck. The sound of the motor woke
Grover enough for him to push the gas and hold the
steering wheel. His head swooped and he swerved the truck
and they crashed into a power line. Grover vomited and
passed out again.
Kelvin got out of the truck and took Grover and dragged
him into the passenger seat and buckled him in.
Kelvin took the steering wheel and drove his friend back
home.
When they arrived Grover’s ma lay sprawled in her
rocking chair on the porch.
Grover was still passed out in the driver’s seat. He
looked similar to his mother.
Kelvin tried to wake Grover again. He repeated his name
and shook him but he did not move. Kelvin repeated,
“fuck,” and got out of the truck and rushed towards
Grover’s mom. Her breath was gone and the machine was
dead.
Kelvin backed the truck up to the deck and ripped the
generator from the truck engine. He ran the extension cable
to Grover’s mom. He plugged the machine in and it lit up
but she did not wake. Kelvin took his pipe and tried to get
her to smoke what was in it but she was not alive.
84Kelvin grabbed her by the gullet and put the pipe in her
mouth and burned the resin. Until gently she coughed.
The truck door creaked open and Kelvin turned to see
Grover stumbling out.
Grover leaned against the truck, it held him up and his
eyes flickered open, he smirked as he watched Kelvin
helping his ma.



















Harold limped onwards, holding the mule’s reign, out of
the valley and past the road. There was grass, yellow, by and
large.
Harold looked at each farmhouse. No two alike, some
with tin siding and others wooden.
A man leaned a ladder against his barn and looked at
Harold.
“Day sir,” the man said.
Harold pointed the rifle towards the man and shot it
above his home. The man shut his mouth to Harold from
then on.
Harold continued down the road until he saw the yellow
truck. The one those two bandits came on and stole the
wagon with. Harold readied his rifle at his shoulder and
walked onto the property.
Grover’s mom rocked back and forth in her chair on the
balcony. She was plugged into her machine and it was
charged up well. Harold stared at her and she could see he
had no mercy left. Harold tied the mule to a post on the
balcony.
86“I’ll get you to stay here a minute,” he patted the mule’s
head.
He walked towards Grover’s mom and said to her,
“fuckin missy, get up.”
He took her by the gown and lifted her like an empty
sack. He yanked the IV from her arm and kicked open the
screen door.
He looked through the kitchen and the main floor and
the upstairs.
From the window downward he could see Kelvin and
Grover lying in the grass, inebriated and passed out. Harold
could see the woman’s frame and saw that it could fit out
the window and there’d be nothing to hit on the way down.
Just a clear fall. But instead of tossing her, he dragged her
through the house and to the yard.
“Wake the fuck up you numbskull hick fucks,” Harold
shot a round into the air. Kelvin heard it and his eyes
flickered open.
“Wake the fuck up I said.”
Kelvin awoke and got up.
“Wake the goblin.”
“Grover. Hey Grover,” Kelvin smacked Grover until he
woke. When he did they both stood. Harold held the rifle
to Grover’s mom’s head.
“You put that fuckin rifle down and we talk I ain’t saying
that again,” Grover said.
87Harold then pulled the trigger and shot the rifle through
Grover’s Mom’s cheekbone, the bullet hollowed out her
skull like a supermarket turkey, her innards spewing along
the deck.
Grover screamed in a desperate howl and pointed his
pistol at Harold and Kelvin pointed the gun he had at
Harold.
Harold tossed Grover’s mom onto the deck in front of
Grover. She was roadkill at best.
Kelvin was the first to speak, he was hostile and blind
with rage, “you’re dead mother fucker. You’re fuckin dead.”
“Kelvin,” said Grover.
“I’m fucking doing it. I’m fucking going and doing it.”
“That’s not how this ends Kelvin. You do not shoot him
dead.” Grover was wiping tears from his eyes and was
seething with hatred.
“Fuck that shit Grover. Not this time.”
Grover turned his gun towards Kelvin. “There’s no
heaven to turn to if you go and take his life.”
Kelvin held both fists around the handle and would feel
no regret.
“Any heaven got blown to fucking oblivion soon as that
sun blown you dumb fuck,” Harold said.
“You don’t know a damn thing fuck.”
“Whatever cloud town you been praying on got yolked
and has been for some time,” Harold said.
88“Shut the fuck up. Both of you go and shut the fuck up,”
Kelvin screamed.
“That isn’t how this goes, Kelvin, go on beg forgiveness
but it ain’t gonna be easy having you shot someone in cold
blood is it? Ma’s gone in heaven now we got to see her there
again,” said Grover.
“I don’t give a christ’s fuckin fuck for fuck’s sake man! I
will kill this mother fucking guy!”
“Hell’s gone fucked too. I’ll shoot both of dead where
you stand soon as I find my wagon,” said Harold.
Kelvin screamed and Grover would not let Kelvin kill
Harold and he shot Kelvin in the forearm.
Harold shot Grover in the head, his forehead split and
his brains fucked oﬀ into the yard. At that moment Kelvin
shot at Harold, it split into his gut and he saw the wagon in
the yard, behind the shed. Kelvin cried for his friend and
Harold aimed the rifle and shot Kelvin through the ribs and
another that angled through his neck and out the roof of his
skull.
Harold hobbled towards the wagon. He yanked the
cords from it and was weak as he walked and he guided it to
the front of the house where the mule was.
He untied the mule from the pole and attached its reign
to the wagon.
“Ok old buddy, the rest has got to be up to you.”
89Harold was pale as he spoke and could not stand without
leaning on the wooden frame.
“Appreciate an old mule like you. You been good to me
and all that I’d been through. As tough as anyone I’d ever
come across.”
He pat the mule on the head. And before he sent him oﬀ
he saw the boy, Robert, coming along the way.
Robert held the blade and was covered in the parasite’s
bile and blood. He walked towards the house and looked at
the stopwatch.
“Boy?”
“Decent knife if you’re asking me,” Robert said.
Harold smiled and was happy to see Robert.
“Took some damn time carving my way out of that
bastard and finding the same truck through all these
houses.”
Robert showed him the stopwatch and the hours it took
him. Harold nodded. He still bled from the gunshot
wound.
“You got the wagon?”
“I did.”
“What about the bandits?”
“Left em in the yard.”
Robert nodded.
“You get shot?”
“Suppose I did.”
90“Huh.”
Robert helped him back to his feet. Harold began to
dress the wound. Robert watched him.
“Be alright,” said Harold.
Robert patted the mule on the head.
“Glad to see you, boy.”
“Uh huh.”
They walked down the road. The mule lead the wagon
and eventually they faded oﬀ into the distance, back
towards Lotuspond.
9192

























LOUISA'S STORY

In her grass stained overalls, she bikes faster and faster through the dirt. Through overgrown branches and along the hillside. Her tire goes through ant hill, her wheels through a cloud of dust. She disappears down the trail, there are no buildings and there is no road. Only a massive prairie sky and a creek at the bottom of the hill.

She is with two others. They creep through wirey bushes. They stop at a big crab apple tree. They stay on the lookout. She climbs up and shakes out the branches. The apples rain down. They rush to collect them.

They sit now with a handful of others. The Rabbi holds his hands behind his back. Pacing back and forth. A stained glass cabinet behind him. He points to it and begins to shout. 

--The TORAH... nothing is so important as it is... nothing so much so that IF it is dropped... then each person in the room... who saw it fall... and including the person who dropped it... shall not be permitted... to EAT... or... to DRINK... for forty days and forty
nights...

A kid, with his kippah puts his hand upward. The Rabbi ignores him. None of the other kids pay attention to the lecture. She looks out the window.

Won’t they die if they do that?
The Rabbi stops pacing.
...It is not OUTSIDE the REALM of possibility...
The boy’s entire being becomes consumed by the fear of God.
For the boys BAR Mitzvah... and for the girls BAT Mitzvah... there is no other difference...
Why’s it say bat if it’s supposed to say butt?
Fire fills in the whites of The Rabbi's eyes... SHEKET!

She sits at the Rabbi's desk. He flips loudly through a large book with thin pages and runs his finger down the margin. And carefully he selects a sacred line... Ah ha.
He slowly copies the Hebrew verse from the book onto a piece of paper. He creases the paper and rips it into a strip.
He say, in one year you will come and stand on the bima--
He points to the stage area at the front of the room.
--and you will read this from the Torah.
He slams the loose leaf down in front of her.
This is your Torah parshah.
She looks at the parshah.
What’s it say?
He raises an eyebrow at her.
What’s it say? Eventually you...will tell me.




The creek. A glass bottle explodes off a tree branch. She searches for another rock. Her friend tosses one, trying to hit the next bottle in the row. She misses. 

My sister’s got a cousin who had a Bat Mitzvah and she got two thousand bucks.
Well it’s your cousin too then.
Whose going around giving two thousand bucks?
You and your sister got all the same relatives. Duh.

The girl blindly launches a rock. It cannonballs over and shatters the biggest bottle.

One things for sure I don’t wanna get stuck going off to Bat Mitzvah classes every damn weekend if I don’t have to.
I told my Mom right when I got up this morning that she can go to hell. I’m not scrubbing the hardwood and I’m not brushing the dog’s teeth.
I’m gonna tell my Mom I’m not even gonna have a stupid Bat Mitzvah.
I’m gonna tell my Mom that she can take all ten commandments and shove them up her ass. She committed adultery on my Dad and Step-Dad.
But how do we get the money then?
I dunno.

The girls stand in a circle.

We got to break all the commandments, quit Bat Mitzvah classes and still get the money.
Ya! We gotta get the money!

All three of them light up. A worm pokes its head out of the mud. 

She jumps down and grabs it and holds it up to the sky. Her friends squish through the mud and they each pick a worm.

Alright.
We got to seal the deal then.

They stare at the worms.

We’re quitting Bat Mitzvah classes--and sticking together--like worms--in the mud.

They all nod at one another. The worms squirm.
Well. Someone go ahead and say the blessing then.

What blessing?

They look at her

Um... ok. Um... Baruch Atah Adonai Borei Pre Cha Worms. Amen.
Amen.
Amen.

They close their eyes and drop the worms into their mouths.

Her friend chews with her mouth open. The other gags. She gulps it down.

She washes string beans through a colander in the sink... Her Mom pulls a glass tray from the oven. Her hair is frizzy, she wears clunky jewelry and oven mitts.

You know how much money you can get off a Bat Mitzvah?
How much?
Daphne said her cousin got two thousand bucks!
Her Mom judges the colander of beans.
But we all decided we’re not gonna have them. Me, Daphne and Claire.
...These are all washed?
Uh huh.
You sure?

There’s some dirt on one of the beans. She goes back to washing.

Mom, I decided I’m not gonna have a Bat Mitzvah!
Ok.
Her Mom seemingly couldn’t care less.
Her little brother comes in. 
I need a bucket of water to wash the windshield with.
What’s wrong with the hose?
It needs soap.
He sneaks a handful of beans from the colander and darts off.

Well how much did you get off yours?
How much did I get off my what?
How much did you get off your Bat Mitzvah?
What Bat Mitzvah?
Your Bat Mitzvah.
Louisa... I never had a Bat Mitzvah.
You didn’t?
Nope.
Why?
Because girls don’t have to if they don’t want to.
She stares at her Mom.
Well am I supposed to have one or not?
Her Mom digs a bucket out from under the sink.
Mom?
Yes?
Do you think I should have a Bat Mitzvah?
...It’s up to you.
Well I’m not going to then.
Ok.

She carries a bucket of soapy water from the house. Her Dad sprays the car down with the hose. She puts down the bucket.

What you guys making in there?
A lot of stuff.
Her brother comes over and tries to lift the bucket. He almost spills it.
Her Dad sprays her brother. 
Hey!
Where you taking that?
We gotta dump it on the windshield.

He almost spills it again...

Her Dad gives her the hose. He takes one side of the bucket and her borther takes the other. They walk it closer to the car. She waits until they aren’t paying attention and blasts them both with the hose.

Damn hell!
Her Dad and brother lift the bucket and launch the water back at her.


Her Mom sits at the head of the table. She looks unimpressed. Everyone is soaked.

Why did you EAT a WORM?
Claire did and so did Daphne. We had to seal the deal.
...If you split a worm in half it doesn’t even die. It just becomes two worms... and keeps wiggling... so if you chewed one up it would be two and then four and then even more than that probably over a million... and then they would just squirming around your stomach forever.

She puts a fork full of wormy green beans into her brother's face.
Don’t!
Her Mom widens her eyes at her Dad. He nods.
Ya.
She nudges him under the table--
--Ok.

He puts his utensils down. She swallows the beans...
Ok. Someone pass me the juice.

No one does. Her brother stands up on his chair and reaches the juice pitcher from the other end of the table. He almost drops it but her Dad lifts it over for him. They all watch him pour until his glass overflows onto the table.
Her Mom looks frustrated. Her brother chugs the entire glass and burps loudly.
Carson!
He wipes juice off his face.
What?
...We’re moving.
She is blindsided.
What?
We’re moving.
We’re moving?
Where?
To the city.

She looks at herh Dad, and then back to her Mom... they aren’t
kidding.

She stares at the water rushing over the rocks in the creek. She sits in the mud with her friends. They break a large branch into little sticks and throw them into the water.

I got something to tell you guys. And it isn’t good--
--My Mom said I’m technically not even Jewish.
Huh...
Whatever...
You guys still like me?
Ya.
You still like me?
Ya. Whatever, I said.

She sighs. They toss more sticks in the water.

...I gotta move. To the city. With my family.
What do you mean you gotta move...to the city?
Ya. What do you mean you gotta move... to the city?
I mean I gotta move. To the city... so I gotta say bye... to both of you.
Well how we gonna be a group if you move to the city?
I dunno.
You can’t just leave the group.
Ya. You can’t just leave the group.
I’m not leaving the group.
If you move away then you are.
Ya, so you gotta stay.
Why are you even going?
My Dad is gonna try make more money there.
I guess you better have your Bat Mitzvah then. If you need the cash.
Ya but we already ate the worms so--
Well it doesn’t really matter if you’re not even here to see it through.
We made a deal though.

Her friend looks back and forth between the two of them. She doesn’t know whose side to take.

The deals off.

Her friend is shocked. She is defeated.
Her friend gets up and hugs her. 

I’ll never forget the worms.
I wish I didn’t have to go.
Her friend won’t join in on the hug. She spits on her hand and offers her a handshake. Her friend hesitates for a moment before spitting on her hand too.
See you on the other side.

They shake on it.

She rides her bike more slowly now. Through the dirt and home. 

Her clothes overflow from her suitcase. Her knick-knacks and toys are crammed into cardboard boxes. She carefully unpins one of her plant drawings from the wall.
...Do you need them?
Mom!
Her Mom tapes one of the boxes closed.
You can’t take everything.
Well I am.
She preciously stacks her drawings.
Your Dad is going to make a lot more money in the city.
So what? This is our house! We can’t just leave.

Her Mom tapes up another box.

When I was your age I would have given anything to move to the city. I used to beg my mother.
Well when I was my age I would give anything not to move to the city.

They look at each other.

...What did Bubby say when you told her you weren’t gonna have a
Bat Mitzvah?
That God would curse me.

Her Mom puts more tape on the box.

Makes sense.

She carefully places her last plant drawing down.

She picks up a watering can and follows her Bubby along the fence. Her Bubby wears a faded floral patterned apron. Her hair is even frizzier than her Mom's. Her Bubby inspects a leaf. She points to a section that needs more water. She pours where she’s shown.

I didn’t know this was gonna be the last summer we’d get to have all
these plants...

Her Bubby kneels down to judge a stalk of rhubarb. She goes to water it. Her Bubby holds her hand up. She pauses. Her Bubby reaches into the dirt.

Louisa... never forget... that everything you have--

Her Bubby gets a good grip around the root.

Can be taken away--

She tugs the root and rips it from the ground.

--without even a moment’s notice.

She tosses the stalk down. Dirt falls from her hands.

This part is sweet--
She shows her the red part.

--and this part--

She picks two leaves off the other end.

--is poison.

She passes her one of the leaves.

Eventually we may not have any choice left but to believe in the
things we cannot see...

Her Bubby eats her leaf.

...It will kill the worms. Your stomach will feel better.

She eats her leaf too.

She sneaks downstairs, carrying one of her plant drawings. It looks very similar to the one she ate with her Bubby. Her Dad's briefcase is open on the coffee table. He’s fallen asleep with a file folder on his chest. She creeps toward the briefcase. And goes to sneak the plant drawing inside one of the folder compartments but there is something hidden in there. A pill bottle. She takes it out and finds three more
pill bottles.
Her Dad's socks rustle. She freezes.

What you snooping around in there for?

I was sneaking in a picture... so you got something to remember the house by.

He smiles at her.

What do you got all these pill bottles for?
It’s nothing.

She stares at him... waiting for a better answer.

...The doctor’s got some precautions I gotta take.
What for?
I got a stomach issue they’re looking at.
You got something wrong with it?
It’s nothing to worry about.

She doesn’t buy it at first... she glares at him.

It’s gonna be good for me to be closer to the doctors in the city.
She looks back at his briefcase. The plant drawing shows from of the compartment.

Grandma gave me poison leaves to kill the worms I ate and now I don’t feel nothing wrong with me.

Lemme see.

He pries open her eyeball a bit.

Look up...

She looks up.

...open.

She opens her mouth. He looks inside. He grabs her earlobe and looks into her ear.

Louisa. Do. Not. Move.

She’s confused. He pries a long imaginary worm out of her ear and pretends to eat it.

Dad!

You know what... they don’t taste as bad as they look. 

He pretends to chew. She pushes his face.

There’s no worm in my ear.

He swallows the fake worm.

Your Mom doesn’t know about those pills or what’s going on with my
stomach and I can’t have her going around worrying about it the way
she does...

Well I’m not worrying about nothing.

Good.
Good.
You’re alright keeping it between the two of us for now then?
...She nods.

Bubby told Mom that God cursed her for not having a Bat Mitzvah... and then, you know what? The second I told Mom I wasn’t gonna have one then you guys told me we were moving.

Her Dad laughs.

Most of my friends don’t even believe in any of that stuff and I barely do either.
It means a lot of different things to a lot of different people.
Well you gonna get worked up if I skip out on having a Bat Mitzvah?
...When I was a kid I didn’t want to have one either... but you know
what?
...What?
In the end I was glad I did.
...Why?
This stumps him.
...I’m not sure how to put it exactly... but how about this... I’ll make you a deal alright?
He collects the pill bottles back into his briefcase.

...I’ll make you a deal that I won’t give up if you don’t.

She takes a moment. She looks at the briefcase and then back at him.

Alright then.

They shake on it.

Her brother pulls an overflowing cardboard box from the front door to the driveway. Her Mom watches him from on the sidewalk. She wears a jacket that’s clearly too heavy for the season. A moving trailer is attached to the car. 

She slowly pedals her bike down the driveway
DAD!
Her DAD sticks his head out of the back of the trailer.
What?
Louisa’s still riding her bike!
Uh huh.
MOM!
What?
Louisa’s still riding her bike!
Enough! Bring your stuff already!
He pushes the box past the real estate sign on the lawn. It’s marked SOLD.

She stares at the house through the back window of the car. 

Her brother looks at her. 
What?
Did you do that because we’re never coming back?
Do what?
Ride your bike when we were supposed to be leaving.
She nods.
He stares out the back window too. They watch the house get smaller and smaller as they drive off. They’ve left their home behind.

The prairie sky turns to overcast. The city skyline pokes out of the horizon. Black metal fire escapes line brick buildings. What used to be dirt and grass is now grime and concrete.

The car pulls up to the street corner, the moving trailer is still in tow. Her brother runs out of the car. She follows behind.

Where’s the damn house?

Her Dad picks her brother up and points at an apartment window...
Huh...

She looks out that same window her Dad was pointing to. The car is parked on the street. Her new room is smaller and more drab than her old one. She’s barely unpacked but she’s already pinned her plant drawings to the wall. She goes out to the new living room. Her Dad rests on the couch. Her Mom unpacks dishes into the new kitchen...
She goes into her brother's room. He’s head first in a box.

What are you doing?
Nothing... what are you doing?
Nothing...

She jumps into a puddle. It splashes her brother. He kicks water back at her. Some gets in her mouth. She spits it out. A rat runs alongside them. They stop and watch.

That’s a big mouse.
Yah.

They go around the corner. An old mattress hangs off the side of a dumpster. A deep incision runs diagonally through it. She boosts him into the dumpster. He pushes the mattress up and She pulls it out until it slides over the edge of the dumpster and onto the road. There are black spotted marks around the edge of the mattress. He climbs up to the edge of the dumpster.

Should I jump it?
Ok.
He jumps off the dumpster and onto the mattress. He bounces high into the air...

She walks along the gravel and scratches her arm. She watches a group of girls choreograph a dance routine. She’s too shy to go up to them. She rolls up her sleeve and reveals a cluster of red bumps. Bug bites. She can’t stop scratching them. She watches some other kids play kickball.

She stands on a chair and talks on the phone. Her Bubby is on the other line. She fiddles with a hammer as she talks.

And how is your tummy?
Good.
And how is your brother?
Good.
And how is your mother?
Good.
And how is your father?
Um... good.
...Why do you say it like that?
...Like what?
Louisa... do you want to give me nightmares?
No.
Well?
Bubby...
Yes?
Do you think Mom got cursed from not having a Bat Mitzvah?
...Louisa... your Mother... her curse... how can I say... there are some days which God has left a rain cloud over her bed. Sometimes for a reason... and sometimes for no reason at all...
Ok. Well. You think I gotta have a Bat Mitzvah right?
Of course, yes. You must.
Well, I already told my Dad I would. So now I gotta.
Good. So. Where is your Mother?
She jumps off the chair and runs to the hallway with the hammer.
...MOOOOOOOOOOM! PHOOOOOONE!
The phone hangs off the cord... 

She watches her Dad align a mezuzah up to the door frame.
How’s that?
Good.
You sure?
Down a bit.
That good?
Ya.
Ok. Gimme the hammer.

She hands him the hammer. He whacks the nail in.

Alright, you’re up. 

He gives her the hammer and holds the bottom nail in place.

How hard should I go?
Just give it a shot.
She goes to swing but stops.
I dunno Dad...
You can do it.
What if I whack your fingers?
Then you whack my fingers.

She swings at the nail. It bends inward. She gasps. Her Dad smiles. His hand is fine. He pulls the bent nail out and gives her a fresh one. She hammers it in.

A door down the hall opens.
The hell you doing?
We gotta Christen the place.
That some kind of Jew box?
We’re doing the whole floor, your place is next.
I’ll shove that thing so far up--
The old man notices her...
God damnit... just keep it down. People tryna sleep around here.

He slams the door. She finishes hammering. They look at the mezuzah.

You know Dad, I gotta make some new friends and I’m not sure if this is really going to help.
Her Dad laughs.
It might take a bit of time but... I know it’s not easy at first.
I guess so.
What about this weekend, you got any plans?
I thought we were going to go find a new synagogue?
Her Dad smiles.

She holds her Dad's hand through a swarm of people. She’s never seen such a big crowd in her life. They sit with a bag of peanuts. A fly ball scatters pigeons off the grass. Her Dad has a way of shelling the peanuts with one hand. She uses both hands and still has trouble with it. She goes to bite off the end of the shell. He takes it away and shows her how to do it. She tries again but it’s going to take more practice. And then a player steals a base. She jumps up.

He went for it!

She turns to her Dad in complete disbelief.

He just went and ran! Nobody’d even hit the ball.
You never seen that before?
No!

He laughs. She sits back down. The next batter is up.

The second you know that ball’s left his hand you gotta already be
running. If you can make it before the ball does... then that’s fair.

She takes it in. 

They drive down the road.
Hey Dad...
Uh huh?
What’s going on with those doctors?
It’s going.
You done with those pills yet?
Getting there.
...Well when should go to the synagogue then?
...Next weekend. How about that?
Alright.
Might be a decent way for you to meet some new friends.
I guess so.

Recess. Kickball. Her team is in the dugout. There are two guys in front of her. The first kicker strikes out. The second kicker knocks one into the outfield. It’s an easy catch. He’s out.

She up. She slowly walks up to the plate. The ball zooms towards her. She misses it. She doesn’t swing at the second. She boots the third. It flies low to the ground, skimming the dirt. She darts to first. Safe.

The fourth kicker is big enough to knock the ball out of the park. He misses the first pitch... misses the second... but the moment the third pitch leaves the pitcher's hand-- she runs.

NO STEALING! NO STEALING!

She doesn’t care. Nobody said anything about no stealing. The kicker misses the pitch. The catcher tosses the ball to second base. It gets there before Louisa does. She runs back to first, but second base tosses it back.

She’s in a pickle. Back to second, back to first and then they get her -- She’s out. She jogs back to the dugout looking as pleased as can be.

She yawns. Her hair is all messed up. She stands on her bed and looks out the window. Everything is covered in snow... Her Dad's car isn’t parked in its usual spot.

She scratches her arm in the doorway and watches her Mom fold laundry on the bed.

What time’s Dad getting home?
I’m not sure.
She walks closer to the bed.
He said we’d go to the new synagogue.
What for?
Bat Mitzvah classes. To sign up.
I thought you decided not to have one.
...I changed my mind.
She folds a sweater.
Maybe another Rabbi will have some sense... That Rabbi was disgusting.

She looks confused by this. She watches her Mom fold more sweaters.

He was... disgusting?
Her Mom goes to the nightstand. She opens the drawer and reveals the parshah that the Rabbi had given her.

Hey!

He should know better than to give this to a little girl.
Where’d you get that?
You left it in your jacket pocket. It would’ve gone through the laundry. You should feel lucky I saved it. 
Her Mom holds out the parshah.

Do you know what this says?
No...

Her Mom puts parshah into her shirt pocket and goes back to folding laundry.

What does it say?
I’m not talking about it.
Mom!
You can get a new one.
Tell me what it says.
Absolutely not.
Gimme it back then.
Her Mom keeps folding laundry.
MOM.
You can get a new one.
I don’t want a new one. I want that one.
I’m not having this conversation.
When’s Dad home?
I don’t know.
She storms off.

This synagogue is a lot bigger than the one back home. The seating is stadium-like. A massive and ominous stained glass mural is built into the ceiling. The Rabbi's appearance doesn’t overtly reveal him as a
Rabbi. She hides behind her Dad.

We had a decent congregation. Better than you might expect. Good bunch of folks making a point of going when they can.

A lot of young families are moving to the neighbourhood here. They’re
able to walk on Shabbat.

We aren’t a far drive.

Louisa, there’s a girl who I think might be in your year, my granddaughter, Minnie Minkoff, do you know her?
No.
Minnie Minkoff. Fifth grade.
We’re not at the Hebrew school if that’s what you mean.
I see.
...Her mom wants us to get this switched.
He takes the parshah from his pocket and gives it to the Rabbi. 

Her eyes widen... Her Mom must have given it to him. The Rabbi puts his glasses and reads the writing. He laughs.

Right. Traditionally yes we give a certain Parshah depending on where
its meant but in this case... I’m sure, God willing, we can make an exception.

He crumples up the paper and tosses it into the garbage can. She can’t believe he just did that.

As far as I’m concerned what matters more than anything is community. Religion is community period.

I can appreciate that.

Of course.

Do you know if the Hebrew school offers any kind of subsidized rates?

You know I’m not sure. I think they might do that for families who are new to the country. But... I’m not sure. Here--

The Rabbi takes a brochure from his desk and writes down a name and a number.

Give this guy a call. He’s the principal there.

Her Dad takes the brochure before shaking the Rabbi's hand. 

Alright thanks.

She stares at the garbage can.

In the car. She seems especially anxious about something. Her Dad keeps looking over at her.
...What?
I’m feeling bad about that paper.
The one that got your Mom all up in arms?
Ya.
The one he tossed in the garbage...
Ya.
You wanted it?
It’s ok.
Her Dad turns the car around. They get honked at from both directions.
Dad. It’s ok.
He isn’t going to listen to her. He speeds down the road.

She waits in the car. She scratches the bites on her arm and looks at the big star of David on the side of the building. 
Her comes back...
I don’t know about that guy...
He gives her the parshah... the words are a bit blurred by a dark stain.

He didn’t even look like a real Rabbi.
Real sense of entitlement charging people that kind of cash... we might be better off finding somewhere else.

They drive out of the parking lot and back onto the street.

I don’t know why Mom got so angry about Rabbi Elmer.
Her Dad Laughs. 
Well... your Mom’s got her own way of showing she cares sometimes... but she would’ve already tossed that paper out if she didn’t know that it meant something to you...

She stares out the window.

...Be patient with her. She deals with a lot.

She walks through the alleyway with her brother. They wear their knapsacks. His winter hat is pulled over his eyes. She eats a pear.

You got itchy spots. I got itchy spots. So, guess what?
What?
I don’t got bed bugs. We got bed bugs.
She stops walking. 
Lemme see.
No.
Why not.
She grabs his arm.
Damn it.
He tries tugging away. She shows him her arm.
Look. I got em too.

He looks. Hers are even more swollen than his.

I also got them on my damn head.
Lemme see.

She pulls off his hat. He’s got them all over his forehead. These guys wanted to kick my ass but then they wouldn’t even do it because they saw the bites.

Which guys?

He shrugs again.

We should only tell Dad. He’ll deal with it better. Mom doesn’t gotta
know. Plus we probably got them from her curse.

What curse?

Bubby said she got one.

...Gimme that pear when you’re done with it.

Okay.

Well if we got bed bugs then Mom’s got em and if Mom’s got em Dad’s got em too. And then, next thing you know, everyone at school’s gonna have em especially if they keep getting the nerve tryna kick my ass because eventually they won’t be able to resist and then all their families gonna get em too and then the whole city’s gonna get em and then the whole earth won’t even barely exist and it’ll turn into one giant bug in space and it’ll eat the moon and every other planet in the world!

She finishes the pear and give him the core. He whips the pear at a passing car.

It’s recess. A group of girls stand huddled together outside the back door. They’re freezing. She lurks on the sidelines, orbiting with some of the other lower hanging fruit.

I’m so cold.
UGH. I can’t even feel my toes.
I’m so cold, I’m so cold, I’m so cold.
Literally I can’t feel my face.
I’m so cold, I’m so cold, I’m so cold.

The door bursts open and a kid runs out. One of the girls leaps over to catch the handle but she doesn’t make it. It closes.
The girl tries to yank it open but it’s locked. She screams and falls to her knees and bangs on the door with both fists.

We’re going to die! We’re going to die!
UGHH!!!!!!!!!! You dumb idiot!
You’re not even allowed in there during lunch.
Shut up loser!

The girl kicks snow at him as he runs off.

I’m going to kill myself.

She wanders off and goes up to the front desk.

Excuse me Ma’am...
Uh huh?
I gotta use the bathroom.
She looks down at the pool of slush she's tracked in. She slams a hall pass on the counter. She takes it and hustles down the hall.

NO RUNNING!

She stops running and goes into the bathroom uses the hand dryer to warm up her hands. She very quietly opens the door and sneaks down the hall. She runs down to the back door and opens it. The girls all pile in.

Oh my God!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Seriously oh my God.
Oh my God, seriously.

I’m so cold. I’m so cold.
You saved our LIVES.
Seriously.
That’s alright.
She goes back down the hall and puts the hall pass back on the counter. Back outside... around to the back door... it’s locked. She peaks through the window. All the girls are huddled around. She knocks on it. No one answers. She bangs louder. Still no one.

The door opens and --
--Oh my God, do you have to bang so loudly, like, we can hear you ok? Just chill.

She walks in. She stands in the inner orbit now...
Ok so-- Christmas. What are you getting? Tell us everything.
Oh. Um. We don’t really do that.
...Um, why?
Are you poor?
Well. I um. I got Chanukah.
Oh my God! You’re Jewish?
Oh my G-d Jewsie Jew Jew!!!!!!!!!!
Jews are SO weird. But also cool.
But so weird.
Seriously, so weird though.
Jews are basically like... Chinese. Do you know what I mean?

She smiles awkwardly. She is being shy.

Um. Jews are not Chinese... are Jews Chinese?
Ok. Seriously, what about that insane party thing? Are you having that?
Bat Mitzvah?
Butt Missvah!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Butt butt miss vah butt butt butt miss vah butt butt miss vah butt butt butt miss vah butt.
You HAVE to invite us.

The secretary emerges from the background.

GIRLS. WHAT ARE YOU DOING! GET OUT OF HERE NOW!!!

They all scatter back outside.

She has dinner with her brother and her Mom. She lethargically picks at her plate. Her brother wears his winter hat to cover the bug bites. Her Mom watches them eat.
Mom.
She looks at him. But doesn’t answer.
Mom...
Yes?
Mom.
What?
If there’s a lot of poo... in your butt and it won’t come out then you needa have a lot of farts to blast it out...

She and her Mom do their best to ignore him.

But if the air doesn’t get the poo out then that’s why it can smell like farts instead of just air... because the way a fart smells... it
just depends on the poo already in your butt... if you smell your own fart it’s okay to know what it smells like... but if you smell another guy’s fart... then it can be so deadly!

Her Mom has done everything in her power to repress it but she cracks a smile.
--Carson!
What?!
Stop.

She senselessly forks at her food. He scratches the bug bites under his hat.

What are you itching for?

She tries to take his hand to stop him from scratching but he pulls it away.

I’m not.

His eyes dart back and forth. He looks at her, unsure of what to do...
What?
He shrugs.
Her Mom looks at where the bites on his forehead are. It’s unclear whether or not she can see them...

Mom, if you got a curse... I guess that means WE got a curse too, doesn’t it?

Her Mom looks at her. 

She bikes faster and faster. The road is snow and ice. She wheels up the sidewalk and tries to dodge a trash bag but her tire slips and she hits the ground. She lays there. Flat on her face. Motionless. There’s no one around... She gets back up and limps back to her bike. She tries to pedal but the gear is bent in. She falls off again.

Louisa!
Her Dad rushes over, drops his briefcase and kneels down to her.

What happened?
My bike jammed up.

You alright?
Uh huh.

She nods her head. Refusing to cry. He smiles at her and messes up her hair. She smiles back. He takes the bike under his arm with his briefcase and walks her back to the apartment.

The parking lot is empty. The car moves at about three miles an hour. She is driving. Her Dad is in the passenger seat and he is in the back.
Down for left, up for right.

What’s the damn speed limit?

The windshield wipers turn on.

Wups.

Her Dad reaches over and hits the switch to turn them off.

Didn’t mean to do that.
That’s ok. Just focus on the road.
Her brother stares out the window.

We’re not even going anywhere.
She glares at him in the rear view mirror... his eyes roll into the back of his head. He knocks his head against the window.

Dad...
Uh huh.
We gotta talk to you. About something.
She drives a bit faster.
Go easy. Just turn the wheel.

She does. But not enough.

All the way over.

He reaches over and helps her turn the wheel.

Ok now straighten it out.
She turns the wheel back around.

DAD!
Son. Hold on.

Dad.
Yup?
Which one’s the brake again?
You said we were gonna tell him!
The one on the left.

She looks at her feet.
Eyes on the road.
I can’t see which one it is.
Dad...

She slams on the gas. They jerk forward. She slams on the brake. They all jerk back.

We got bed bugs!
You good?

She’s a bit shaken up.
Louisa?
Huh?
You good?
Ya.
Her brother rips off his seat belt and bolts off into the parking lot...
...Jesus Christ.
Her gets out and runs after him.

She stares at a heater. It's mounted onto the window with cardboard and duct tape. It turns on and startles her.

Her kneels down and quietly talks to her brother 

A Rabbi enters. He is the most religious looking Rabbi yet. His eyes look exhausted but his energy is squirrel-like.

Ok. Great. So. We’ve got a Bat Mitzvah. OK. So what? Who cares, right? Another day, another Bat Mitzvah. Great.

This makes her smile.

So. Where do we start you’re probably wondering?

We missed a few weeks with the move.

Her brother's attention is already divided... he explores the room.

A-ha. Yes. Do you know where we start then?
No.
At the beginning.

He seems to smile a lot.

Ok. Well. How much is this place?

This place? Nothing. Worthless! Completely.

What’s the price I mean, to have classes.

The Rabbi laughs.

You can always donate. But as a new family in the city... no one is obligated. Yes, this place is falling apart and our members are few but we always find a way.

You got other girls signed up in the class?

Of course.

Good.
Her Dad smiles and goes over to Carson.
Ok. I got a question. From my Mom.
Yes. Mom. What’s Mom’s question?
She wants to get this changed.

She gives him the parshah. He reads it. Gives it back to her.

Changed... changed... she wants to change it? She wants ME to change it? What do you mean she wants to change it? She wants to change the Torah? What are we talking about here? Changing the Torah?

She’s hoping we can get a different one.

Another one. Another one. No no. I’ll tell you what. No way!

His head is spinning.

Ok. Ok. I know what to say. The fifth commandment... what is it?
I dunno.
The fifth commandment. You don’t know it?
I forget.
Honour the Mom and the Dad. Something like that... I might have
them written down somewhere. We can check.
Uh huh.
Remind me your name?
Louisa.
Louisa. Yes. Louisa. You’ve done a mitzvah already just by coming here... but... Louisa, you’ll have to tell your Mother that God has
his reasons.

Ok.
Well... does she believe in God?
I dunno.
Hm. Ok. Actually. On second thought don’t tell her God said anything, just tell her this... Rabbi Immanuel said --NO WAY! Got it?
So you’re not gonna change it?
Absolutely not.
Ok tell me what it says then...

Her Mom's yellow gloves squeak and scrub between the tiles on the kitchen floor.

Lousia, her brother and Dad all burst through the door--

MOM! WE WENT TO THE NEW SYNAGOGUE AND THE RABBI READ LOUISA’S TORAH THING. AND IT’S ALL ABOUT GETTING YOUR OWN DICK CUT OFF. FOR NO REASON!

Her Mom continues to scrub the tiles. More and more aggressively. 

AND NOW SHE’S GOT TO READ ABOUT IT IN FRONT OF EVERYONE. AT HER BAT MITZVAH. DON’T ASK ME ANYTHING ELSE. IT’S JUST WHAT I HEARD AT THE
DAMN SYNAGOGUE.

He runs into his room and slams the door.

She listens to her mother's the scrubbing. Her and her Dad creep toward the kitchen. Her Mom is in a scrubbing trance. She doesn’t look up.

Mom...? We um... found a synagogue and the Rabbi was kinda weird but...

Her Mom puts the cloth down. She looks up at LOUISA. There are tears in her eyes.

Come here.

Her Mom peels off her yellow gloves and reveals bug bites on her wrists and arms. She looks at Louisa's arms. The bites are the same.

Go get your brother.

...We went to the new synagogue and they said we could go there...
Go get your brother.
She goes into her brother's room. He’s in the closet, head first in a box... digging for something...

Mom wants you to come.
I’M BUSY.
Come on.
I been doing crap for you guys all day and I’m sick of it.
Just come on.
He follows her back to the kitchen.
Her Mom sits on the tile, her Dad stands across from her.
Her Mom holds one of Dad's pill bottles. 

--And what? You couldn’t be bothered to tell your wife? Your own wife is so unimportant that you just what? Forgot? 

Her Mom tosses the pill bottle at her Dad. It bounces off him and
rolls into the yellow gloves. She and her brother hide behind her Dad.
Carson, come here.
No.
Son. Go see your Mother.

He does.
She looks at his arm. The bites have gotten worse. He looks at the pill bottles on the ground next to her...

Where else do you have them?

He turns away. She pulls on his arm.
Come here.

She pulls his hat off.

Don’t circumcise me.
How long have these been here?

She inspects the bites on his head.

You couldn’t care to show me?
I didn’t do anything.
He pulls away and runs back to his room and slams the door.

She hides behind her Dad.
...The doctor’s got some precautions I gotta take.

Precautions? Do you think I’m an idiot?

She looks at her Mom. 

Any idiot knows taking these kind of pills is SO past the point of precaution.

She looks up at her Dad... he kneels down to her.

Louisa...

She looks back to her Mom again, and then to the yellow gloves and the pill bottle on the ground. And back to her Dad. 

She runs past him, down the hall and to her room.

An exterminator treats the apartment.

She sits with her brother on a rumbling washer and watch their Mom methodically fold laundry. Her brother jumps down and goes to her Mom. He looks up at her and watches tears fall onto the piles of clothes.

Mom?

Yes.

She isn’t able to make eye contact with him.

Are you crying?
Yes, I am.
Mom.
He pulls on her pant leg until she stops folding and looks at him.
It’s ok Mom.
She tries to smile at him.

She has flour all over her clothes. She stands on a chair and talks to her Bubby on the phone. Her Mom kneads dough over by the sink.

And how is your tummy Louisa?
It’s ok.
And what about your brother?
Good.
He told me his head is itchy...
Um, ya.
I will tell you what to do. You have to listen very carefully, ok?
Ok.
Ok. First you will have to boil water... and with... anchovies. Do you have anchovies?
Mom do we have anchovies?
I’m not going to waste perfectly good food on-- tell her the exterminator already came and dealt with it properly. We’re not going around putting fish all over the carpet. It’s dealt with.
Take one anchovy and put it for each corner of the bed. Do this for your brother and for you and your Mom and Dad. But if there is a spider web in the house carefully use it as a blanket for the fish
instead of the salt...
Ok.
And your Dad, how is his new job going?

She looks out the window. The driveway is empty.

I dunno but at least they got better doctors for him at the hospital here--

--her Mom rips the phone out of her hand. She wedges it between her shoulder and ear and goes back over to the sink. The phone chord stretches across the room.

Mom...
...
Mom?
...Yes?
So?
...So?
MOM
Anything else?
...
Hello Ma-Ma??
--You don’t think to tell your own mother anything anymore? You pack the car and drive down the road and that’s it? Your own mother has become so unimportant that you what? Forgot she even exists? ... Better doctors... at the hospital? What does he need from better doctors at the hospital? Do you think I’m ridiculous? Do you think I’m so ridiculous to pull the wool from my eyes and say nothing?! Those poor children. God forbid...
--Mom! Everything is ok.
Ok.
Ok?
Ok.
Her Mom walks back to her. The phone is still wedged in her ear. Soapy dish water drips off her yellow gloves. 
Call me again.
Ok.
She takes the phone from her Mom's ear and hangs it up for her. She comes back over and dries the dishes that her Mom has washed so far.








INT. SYNAGOGUE - DAY
Bat Mitzvah class. LOUISA sits with IZZY, AKIVA, ELI and
NORMAN.
RABBI IMMANUEL stands in front of the room.
RABBI IMMANUEL
Ok. Ok... so... ok.
He paces in a circle and thinks. He’s having many thoughts at
once.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
Ok. So. What do we want to learn
here today?
...A pause from the kids.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
Anyone?
ELI
What about Chanukah?
RABBI IMMANUEL
Chanukah?
ELI
Yes.
RABBI IMMANUEL
Chanukah?
ELI
Uh huh.
RABBI IMMANUEL
What do you want to know about
Chanukah?55.
ELI
I don’t know.
RABBI IMMANUEL
Chanukah??? Forget Chanukah... what
I will teach today is... that of...
He takes a deep breath and sits on the edge of the desk...
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
What can I teach you that you don’t
already know?
Their confusion lingers... LOUISA stares out the window.
IZZY
I have an announcement.
RABBI IMMANUEL
Ok Izzy... what is it?
IZZY
I have decided that I will only
serve vegetarian food at my Bat
Mitzvah. And you know what? Even
Kosher cows get killed in really
evil ways so if you think it’s any
better to be Kosher then you’re
wrong! It’s really bad. And if you
disagree with me then don’t come to
my Bat Mitzvah and don’t come to my
party. The animals are dying. They
are being slaughtered by the minute
and it must stop now!!!
RABBI IMMANUEL
Wonderful Izzy... it is as Hillel
the Elder teaches... if not now...
when?
IZZY
Oh my G-d exactly! We have to do
something NOW!
RABBI IMMANUEL
Ok Izzy. You go. You drop your
backpack at home and you go.
IZZY gets up and takes her backpack off her chair.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
But after we are done.
She slowly sits back down.56.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
Ok. Ok. Listen to me... ok. When
you go down the street you might
see a man wearing a --
He makes a tornado motion above his head.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
--How do you call it... a man who
wears this hat.
He draws a turban on the chalkboard.
ELI
I seen that.
RABBI IMMANUEL
Yes. And one like this--
He draws a pope’s hat with a cross on it.
He draws a hijab.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
Or even the style of the nun...
He draws a hood, a baseball hat, a cowboy hat.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
... And then some have one like
this little mensch here...
He points to AKIVA who wears a kippah.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
...When we go down the street there
are many different hats... but...
it does not matter about the hat!
All the hats... all of the hats...
they are the same! We can trade
them around and who will care!?
RABBI IMMANUEL throws his kippah on the ground.
He picks it back up and kisses it before putting it back on
his head.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
But anyone will know, no matter
which hat they wear--
He bangs the chalk against the hat drawings on the
chalkboard.57.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
--that when something is true...
there is no later. There is only
now.
He lets it sink in.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
...It’s of no use trying to
understand why G-d makes the
choices that he does...
He begins to calm down a bit.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
...BUT... the choices we make...
they will always be our own...
He sits in his chair. The kids are all quiet.
INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
LOUISA and CARSON stand in the hallway. They peak inside of
MOM and DAD’S room.
MOM is in bed.
CARSON
(whispers)
Is she there?
LOUISA
Ya.
CARSON
Is she sleeping?
LOUISA
I dunno.
CARSON
Go in.
They creak open the door and go toward her.
MOM
What time is it?
Her eyes are puffy. She’s been crying.
CARSON
Mom, come watch TV!58.
MOM
I’m just resting.
CARSON
Come on Mom let’s watch TV.
MOM
You go ahead.
CARSON
You can watch with us on the couch.
He pulls on her.
MOM
It’s ok. You guys can watch.
CARSON
Come on Mom. We gotta have dinner.
He tries to shake her out of it.
LOUISA takes his hand.
LOUISA
Just come down after ok?
MOM nods.
LOUISA guides CARSON away.
MOM
Louisa...
LOUISA
Uh huh?
MOM
Will you put some leftovers out for
when your Dad comes home?
LOUISA
Ok... do you know what time he’ll
be back?
MOM
Late.
LOUISA
Ok.
On the way out of the room LOUISA pushes the door back to
where it was before they came in.59.
INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
DAD comes home.
He looks more sick than before. Exhausted and thin.
LOUISA sleeps on the couch.
A sign labeled “DAD” is taped to a tinfoil wrapped plate of
leftovers.
DAD quietly puts his briefcase down and brings the plate to
the couch. He is careful not to wake LOUISA.
EXT. SCHOOLYARD - DAY
It’s lunch hour. The snow has melted.
LOUISA looks over at the kickball game... she looks at the
GIRLS working on their choreography...
LOUISA meanders along the fence... eventually she comes
across IZZY. IZZY stares into a tree. LOUISA tries to see
what IZZY’S looking at.
IZZY notices her.
IZZY
Oh my G-d!!
LOUISA
Hey. Um...
IZZY
You’re from my Bat Mitzvah class!
Oh my G-d!!!
LOUISA
...Ya.
LOUISA smiles. She goes to shake hands with her. IZZY gives
her a hug.
IZZY
Seriously! So wait you’re probably
like why is this insane girl
literally just standing here
staring at this tree for no reason.
LOUISA
Well. Ya.60.
IZZY
This little bird went in there and
he was so cute!
LOUISA walks closer to IZZY so that they stand side by side.
LOUISA
Does it got its nest in there?
IZZY
Literally I saw it run off from the
playground all the way here.
LOUISA
You tryna catch it or something?
IZZY
No! I just wanted to see it.
LOUISA
Oh.
IZZY
It was a baby.
LOUISA
Well um... oh. Ok... you mind
hanging out together?
IZZY
Oh my G-d! Are you serious? Of
course.
The bird flies out the other end of the tree.
LOUISA and IZZY stand there staring at the tree. Waiting for
the bird.
INT. APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT
LOUISA is alone in the kitchen.
She drains spaghetti into a colander over the sink. She eats
a noodle.
The phone rings.
LOUISA
Hello?
GRANDMA
Louisa, my darling. Tell me. What
is happening in the city today?61.
LOUISA
Hi Grandma. We’re um... we’re just
making dinner!
GRANDMA
Who is?
LOUISA
Me and Mom.
LOUISA goes back to the spaghetti. The telephone chord
stretches across the room.
GRANDMA
Put her on.
LOUISA wedges the phone under her shoulder and ear just like
MOM did.
LOUISA
...She just went to her room for a
second.
GRANDMA
Ok. And how is your Dad doing? I
have nightmares for him each
night...
LOUISA
He’s good!
GRANDMA
Louisa. You can let me know ok?
LOUISA
...Ok.
GRANDMA
Well... if you say ok that means
ok... I don’t want to bother him
but...
LOUISA hears something coming from CARSON’S ROOM. Faint
intermittent bursts of... aerosol...?
LOUISA
One sec Grandma.
She puts down the phone and rushes down the hall...62.
INT. CARSON’S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
CARSON sprays a lit matchstick with a can of insect
repellent. FLAMES burst outward.
LOUISA
CARSON!
LOUISA rushes in and grabs the can from him.
CARSON
Gimme that!
He tries to get the can back from her. She points it at his
face.
I’ll spray you.
I saw a bug.
LOUISA
CARSON
LOUISA
Where?
CARSON
Under the bed.
LOUISA
What kinda bug?
CARSON
A bed bug!
LOUISA
They got exterminated...
CARSON
Well I saw it.
LOUISA
...You sure?
CARSON
Uh huh.
LOUISA
But you burned it?
CARSON
Ya.
LOUISA
Good.63.
INT. APARTMENT - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
The phone still hangs off the hook...
LOUISA and CARSON stand in front of the fridge. There are
dried out onions, old blueberries, a jar of pickles...
CARSON
We need to make something for Mom.
They go to the cupboard. There’s molasses, almonds and other
random baking things. LOUISA takes a bag of icing sugar.
LOUISA
Ok try this.
CARSON eats a handful. He seems to like it.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Good, right?
He has some more.
CARSON
Can we make a cake?
LOUISA
Um. Yah. Ok. Get the blueberries.
He gets them from the fridge.
CARSON
They’re old.
LOUISA
It doesn’t matter. Get a bowl. And
bring those eggs.
He follows along.
CARSON
There’s only one egg.
LOUISA
Crack it in.
CARSON holds the egg with both hands and squeezes it. LOUISA
tries to pick out the shells.
They squish the blueberries in with the egg. CARSON brings
the jar of pickles and pours it in. LOUISA laughs and snot
comes out of her nose. She wipes it with her sleeve.
LOUISA pours in baking soda. CARSON dumps in ketchup.64.
CARSON
One sec.
He runs out of the room.
LOUISA keeps mixing until suddenly her eyes widen.
She runs to the phone.
LOUISA
Grandma!?
GRANDMA
Yes?
LOUISA
You still there!?
GRANDMA
Of course... and Louisa... you
didn’t tell me... how is your
Brother?
LOUISA
Oh...
CARSON comes back with some cough syrup.
CARSON
Mom gave me this before to make me
feel better.
CARSON dumps the entire bottle of cough syrup into the bowl.
LOUISA
He’s good! But Grandma, you
remember that recipe you told me
for the bugs?
GRANDMA
Of course.
LOUISA
Can you tell me it again?
GRANDMA
Oh, yes. Of course. Ok. First boil
the biggest pot of water. And then
you must place in each anchovy. One
for each corner of the bed. Do this
for Carson and for you and your Mom
and Dad.
(MORE)65.
GRANDMA (CONT'D)
And IF there is a spider web in the
house carefully use this as a
blanket for the fish instead of the
salt--
LOUISA
--Carson, put the anchovies in!
GRANDMA
Louisa, the bugs... you may not see
them but that doesn’t mean they
aren’t there. Ok?
LOUISA
Ok. We got the anchovies.
GRANDMA
Ok. Bye for now. You can call me
again.
LOUISA
Ok. Bye for now.
LOUISA hangs up the phone.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Anything else?
CARSON thinks for a moment. He grabs the bag of icing sugar
and dumps it in.
INT. APARTMENT - MOM AND DAD’S ROOM - NIGHT
LOUISA and CARSON creep to the door.
LOUISA
Mom?
No answer.
CARSON
Go in.
He nudges her inside.
CARSON (CONT’D)
Mom... we made something...
He jumps on the bed. LOUISA comes in with a plate of cake.
MOM
Oh...?66.
CARSON
It’s really good.
LOUISA gives MOM the cake.
CARSON (CONT’D)
You gonna try it?
MOM
I’m not hungry Carson. You guys can
have it.
CARSON
You made us eat supper every day
for my whole life and so now you
have to eat it also.
MOM sits up. She isn’t crying but tears keep falling from her
face. She slowly takes a bite.
CARSON watches with huge excitement. She chews...
MOM
It’s very good.
She doesn’t seem to notice the taste.
Something changes in LOUISA. She takes the plate and puts it
on the nightstand.
CARSON
Do you like it?
MOM
Yes Carson. I do.
She smiles at him as much as she can. LOUISA takes CARSON’S
hand and guides him out of the room.
LOUISA
Come on. Mom is tired.
They leave the cake by the nightstand.
MOM
...Tomorrow we’ll go to the
hospital. To visit your Dad.
CARSON looks at LOUISA.
LOUISA
Ok.67.
INT. HOSPITAL - DAY
LOUISA, CARSON and MOM slowly walk down the hospital hallway.
They get to the room where DAD is. He lies in a hospital bed,
an IV is attached to his arm.
The plant drawing LOUISA gave him sits on the bedside table.
CARSON runs in front of LOUISA and MOM.
CARSON
What the hell is that?
CARSON points at the IV bag.
DAD
Soda pop.
MOM sits down next to DAD. She takes his hand and squeezes
it. He smiles at her.
LOUISA still waits by the door.
CARSON
...That’s not soda pop.
DAD
Yup it is.
CARSON looks at the buttons on one of the machines that’s
hooked up to DAD.
CARSON
What do these buttons do?
DAD
They change the flavour.
CARSON is enamored.
LOUISA slowly walks over to where MOM sits.
DAD has lost more weight. His hair is cut a lot shorter.
CARSON
Hey Dad.
DAD
Ya?
CARSON
Can I press this one?68.
A DOCTOR quietly enters the room.
DAD
How about you and your sis go find
the vending machine?
CARSON
Ok. Gimme some money.
INT. SYNAGOGUE - DAY
The rest of the class work quietly while LOUISA and IZZY
whisper to one another.
IZZY
We already got sixty invitations
going out and now I got a new
little baby cousin Saul so that’s
sixty-one!
LOUISA
I barely even got any cousins. But
I got my friends from back home
that maybe will come.
IZZY
Like from the little town?
LOUISA
Ya. Daphne... and Claire.
IZZY
What are their last names?
LOUISA
Um. It’s Daphne Liptzstein and
Claire... Appelbaum.
IZZY writes down their names.
IZZY
And what are their parent’s names?
LOUISA
Claire’s are... um.. I forget but
Daphne’s Mom is um... Francine.
IZZY writes all of this down.
IZZY
Liptzstein and Appelbaum... I bet
my Dad knows them. He literally
knows every person.69.
LOUISA
Well maybe you can meet them at my
party.
IZZY
Oh my G-d! ...did you just invite
me to your party?!?
LOUISA
Ya.
IZZY
Oh my G-d Louisa! Like obviously
you’re coming to mine!
LOUISA
Really?
IZZY
Ya!
LOUISA
When is yours?
IZZY
October. When’s yours?
LOUISA
August.
IZZY
Oh my G-d, like soon!
RABBI IMMANUEL looks up at them. They go back to working for
a second...
IZZY (CONT’D)
Louisa...
LOUISA
What?
IZZY
What’s your last name again?
LOUISA
Moskowitz.
IZZY
Oh my G-d, obviously.
She writes it down.70.
IZZY (CONT’D)
Ok. I’ll ask my Dad if he knows
your Dad too.
LOUISA’S discomfort is subtle enough that IZZY doesn’t
register it.
LOUISA
Ok.
INT. APARTMENT - LOUISA’S BEDROOM - DAY
LOUISA is in her pyjamas, her hair is all bedhead-ish, her
eyes are sleepy. She stands on her bed and looks out the
window.
DAD’S CAR is in the driveway. LOUISA darts off the bed and
runs into the living room...
INT. APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY
...DAD doesn’t look any healthier than he did at the
hospital. He uses a WRENCH to bend back the axle on LOUISA’S
bike...
DAD
Gimme a hand would ya?
LOUISA comes over.
DAD (CONT’D)
Hold this.
LOUISA
You trying to bend it back?
DAD
Trying to ya.
She watches him pry at the axle.
DAD (CONT’D)
I’m gonna be mostly here at home
from now on.
LOUISA
Really??
DAD
Uh huh.71.
LOUISA
You don’t have to stay at the
hospital anymore?
DAD
...It’s best I spend more time here
with you guys for now...
LOUISA nods.
DAD (CONT’D)
But don’t think I’m not still
trying to beat this thing alright?
He adjusts the WRENCH to get a better grip on the axle.
LOUISA watches closely.
LOUISA
Hey Dad?
DAD
Uh huh?
LOUISA
I’m glad I’m going through with my
Bat Mitzvah.
DAD puts the WRENCH down.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Because it makes me feel the same
as you.
He smiles at her.
DAD
You through going around eating
worms then?
LOUISA
Dad!
She pushes him.
He gives her the WRENCH. She uses it to grab onto the axle
like he did.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Like that?
DAD
Uh huh... grab that part... and
bend it back that way.72.
LOUISA readjusts the WRENCH to get a better grip. She keeps
bending it. DAD watches her figure it out.
INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY
LOUISA carries a shopping basket. It’s empty aside from a
carton of eggs. They slowly walk down the aisles.
MOM’S bundled up in her heavy jacket. Her nightgown peaks out
from under it.
MOM
I was a lot older than you and
Carson when my Dad passed away...
MOM takes a can of corn off the shelf. She looks at the
label.
LOUISA
...I only remember the picture of
him holding Carson in a blanket.
MOM reads the ingredients on the can of corn.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Are there any pictures of me and
him?
MOM
Of you and my Dad?
LOUISA
Ya.
MOM
...My Mom might have one.
LOUISA
Maybe we should take a picture of
all of us together sometime soon.
MOM puts the can of corn back on the shelf.
LOUISA takes the can of corn and puts it into their shopping
basket.
MOM
It was good of you to do the Bat
Mitzvah thing for your father. Its
meant a lot to him.73.
LOUISA
Well we made a deal so... I gotta
keep to it.
MOM holds LOUISA’S hand... they walk farther down the aisle.
INT. APARTMENT - DAY
CARSON wears nicer than usual clothes. MOM still wears her
nightgown.
CARSON
MOM! You’re not even dressed.
MOM
What’s all over your cheek?
She licks her thumb and tries to rub off whatever it is.
LOUISA comes out of her room. She wears a velvet dress and
patterned leggings. MOM smiles at her.
MOM goes into her BEDROOM.
DAD does up his tie. MOM goes to the closet and takes a
camera from the top shelf.
MOM (CONT’D)
Ready?
DAD nods. She follows him into the LIVING ROOM.
MOM (CONT’D)
Ok go stand together.
CARSON
Mom! You aren’t even dressed.
MOM
Go stand by your Dad.
She places the three of them together and goes to take the
picture.
DAD takes the camera out of her hand. He puts it on the
counter and sets a self timer.
He grabs MOM and pulls her over to the kids.
MOM (CONT’D)
No way, not a chance. I haven’t
done my hair, I haven’t done
makeup, I’m not dressed.74.
No one pays attention to her.
The four of them stand and wait for the self timer to go
off...
INT. SYNAGOGUE - DAY
The congregation is divided by gender. Men on one side, women
on the other. RABBI IMMANUEL leads the prayers in Hebrew.
LOUISA holds a prayer book but isn’t really paying attention.
IZZY
Louisa!
IZZY waves LOUISA over.
LOUISA stumbles over a few OLD LADIES.
IZZY (CONT’D)
This is my Mom!
They look identical.
IZZY’S MOM
Hi!
LOUISA
Hi!
IZZY
Did your Mom come?
LOUISA
No, she hates synagogue. But my
Dad’s here, and my brother.
IZZY
Really!
LOUISA
Uh huh.
LOUISA points towards them.
IZZY searches around...
IZZY
In the corner?
CARSON and DAD are nudged in the back.75.
LOUISA
Ya. See--
LOUISA watches CARSON tug on DAD’S pant leg, he’s asking for
something.
IZZY
Where?
LOUISA
Right there!
They get shushed by IZZY’S MOM.
IZZY’S MOM
Girls quiet!
They remain quiet for all of three and a half seconds--
IZZY
Your brother’s there too?
IZZY goes on her tip-toes.
IZZY (CONT’D)
I can’t see.
LOUISA
They’re in the back, right there!
IZZY
Where?!
LOUISA
Ugh. I’ll go sit with them and then
I’ll wave back to you ok?
IZZY
Like, you’re gonna go over there?
LOUISA
Ya.
Seriously???
IZZY
LOUISA
Who cares?
IZZY
That’s like... not allowed at all
but... whatever.76.
LOUISA
I’ll wave at you.
LOUISA pushes through the sea of OLD LADIES and goes around
to the LOBBY.
There’s a container filled with kippahs at the entrance to
the men’s section. LOUISA grabs one and puts it on her head.
An OLD MAN gives her an evil look. She sneaks to the corner
where DAD and CARSON are. CARSON wears his usual winter hat
instead of a kippah.
CARSON
LOUISA!
LOUISA
What?
Are you crazy?
CARSON
LOUISA
Carson!
CARSON
What!
LOUISA
Wave at my friend.
LOUISA points IZZY out. CARSON gives her the middle finger.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
CARSON!
IZZY waves and smiles.
The prayer ends.
RABBI IMMANUEL
You may be seated!
LOUISA sits on the other side of DAD.
There is a mound of peanut shells beneath him and CARSON.
It’s just like at the baseball game.
LOUISA looks up at him. He smiles at her and gives her a
handful of peanuts.77.
EXT. RESTAURANT - HIGHWAY - DAY - FLASHBACK
The moving trailer is attached to DAD’S CAR. It’s parked
outside a roadside restaurant...
This is a FLASHBACK from back when we first made the drive to
the city--
INT. RESTAURANT - DAY - FLASHBACK
--LOUISA, CARSON, MOM and DAD sit in a booth. LOUISA eats
chicken fingers and french fries. Everyone else eats
hamburgers and french fries... except MOM has onion rings
instead of fries.
CARSON
Dad...
DAD
Carson...
CARSON
Why do you like mustard?
DAD
It’s good.
CARSON
Hm...
He looks around the table.
CARSON (CONT’D)
Louisa...
LOUISA
What?
CARSON
Do you like mustard?
LOUISA
Why?
CARSON rolls his eyes at her.
CARSON
Um... Mom...
MOM
Yes...78.
CARSON
Do you like mustard?
LOUISA
Carson why are you so annoying!
MOM
Louisa! Don’t be rude.
LOUISA leans on DAD and buries her face in his arm.
CARSON
I’m just asking!
DAD
It’s ok.
DAD makes a secret shh gesture to CARSON. He sneaks some
french fries off LOUISA’S plate.
LOUISA
Hey!
DAD
What? What?
LOUISA
You’re tryna steal my fries!
CARSON copies DAD and grabs some of her fries too. She swats
his hand away.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
You’ve got your own!
CARSON gobbles down the stolen fries.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Gimme a bite of that hamburger.
CARSON
No!
LOUISA
You said you would trade!
CARSON
But I’m so hungry!
LOUISA
You said you would!
CARSON
Gimme some chicken then.79.
LOUISA
Ugh!!!
She rips off a bit of chicken and slams it onto his plate. He
slowly passes her the burger.
CARSON
Only take a normal bite though...
LOUISA
I am.
He monitors the bite closely. She gives it back.
MOM takes a dainty bite from an onion ring.
CARSON
Well I think mustards actually --
CARSON’S face contorts. He smells something.
CARSON (CONT’D)
What the... oh my G-d!!!
He drops his burger back onto his plate and covers his face
with his t-shirt.
DAD puts his hands up.
DAD
Don’t look at me.
MOM holds back a laugh. All eyes turn to MOM.
CARSON
MOM!!! Oh my G-d!!!!
LOUISA puts her face under her t-shirt too.
LOUISA
Oh my G-d... MOM!!! ...
Seriously... you need to go to the
doctor!!!!!!!
MOM is laughing now.
MOM
How dare you think I would do
something like that!
CARSON
Oh my G-d, I breathed it in... I’m
going to die. I can’t handle it...
Mom. Seriously-- I can’t--80.
MOM
CARSON! I would never!!!
She’s laughing.
CARSON’S eyes flutter. He falls out of the booth pretends
he’s dead.
INT. APARTMENT - DAY
A stillness lingers and overshadows the summer light that
shines through the window...
GRANDMA wears all black. She lights a YAHRTZEIT CANDLE on the
kitchen counter. She recites the appropriate mourner’s
prayer.
She puts a piece of fabric overtop of the mirror in the
bathroom. She brings another piece of fabric to the living
room and covers the mirror by the door.
She goes to the mantel and turns the picture frames
downward...
EXT. GRAVEYARD - DAY
LOUISA and CARSON kneel beside GRANDMA. They all wear black.
The sun beats down on them.
GRANDMA places a rock onto the edge of DAD’S tombstone.
CARSON and LOUISA each put a rock down as well.
GRANDMA puts one more rock down. For MOM.
EXT. IZZY’S HOUSE - DAY
LOUISA sits in the passenger seat.
GRANDMA parks the car. MOM sits in the back.
GRANDMA
I’ll pick you up at four thirty. In
the evening. But without the car.
We have to walk. For Shabbat.
LOUISA
Ok.81.
GRANDMA
You can call us earlier. If you
need.
LOUISA
Mom... you gonna come?
MOM doesn’t answer.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Mom?
Still nothing...
LOUISA (CONT’D)
We gotta go light the candle for
Dad, so you gotta come. And Carson
too.
MOM stares out the window.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Is Carson coming?
GRANDMA
I’ll ask him.
LOUISA
Mom... you coming?
MOM
I don’t think so Louisa.
LOUISA
But we gotta light the candle...
for Dad.
MOM
It’s not for me.
LOUISA
But you gotta come Mom.
MOM
It’s ok.
LOUISA
Mom, it’s for Dad.
MOM
It’s ok.
LOUISA
Mom!82.
GRANDMA squeezes the steering wheel.
MOM
Do you think I’m a G-d damned
idiot? Going into a filthy
synagogue? To what? Pray?
GRANDMA reaches back and tries to smack MOM in the head.
GRANDMA
Meshugga! Have some sense.
LOUISA slams the door and runs towards IZZY’S HOUSE.
INT. IZZY’S BEDROOM - DAY
LOUISA and IZZY sit on the bed. They look through a back
issue of National Geographic...
LOUISA
I thought that maybe if I had a Bat
Mitzvah then my Dad would’ve been
ok... like if G-d was actually real
then he wouldn’t have made him sick
like that for no reason.
They look at cheetahs.
LOUISA’S eyes are puffy.
IZZY
...If you never wanted to have a
Bat Mitzvah then I wouldn’t have
gotten to meet you... and remember
when you came up and we were
looking for that bird together?
LOUISA nods.
IZZY (CONT’D)
Well nobody really came up to me
like that before so it meant a lot
to me alright?
LOUISA nods more.
LOUISA
Me too.83.
INT. SYNAGOGUE - EVENING
...The sun sets outside the window. It’s quiet... everything
moves slowly.
LOUISA watches GRANDMA light a YAHRTZEIT CANDLE. GRANDMA
recites a Hebrew prayer.
GRANDMA keeps her hand on LOUISA’S shoulder. LOUISA stares
into the flame.
They leave...
And soon after RABBI IMMANUEL leaves...
The sun sets and now the only source of light comes from the
YAHRTZEIT CANDLE.
The room is very still... almost totally dark...
The cardboard and duct taped mounted AC/HEAT unit turns on...
The YAHRTZEIT CANDLE starts to flicker and the curtain
catches fire...
EXT. STREET - DAY
LOUISA slowly pedals down the road.
The sun makes her squint.
A faint and ominous cloud of smoke starts to come into
view...
EXT. SYNAGOGUE - CONTINUOUS
...The sun is lost in a volcanic haze...
...LOUISA walks farther into it...
The entire synagogue has burnt to the ground.
There is nothing left but charcoal, embers and ash.
LOUISA drops her bike.
RABBI IMMANUEL kneels in the soot. He radiates despair.
LOUISA slowly walks toward him. She stops before getting too
close. She just stands there... unsure of what to say...84.
RABBI IMMANUEL
I used to tell everyone this place
was worthless... and now... it’s
gone.
He becomes lost in his thoughts...
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
...Everything we have--
He picks up a burnt two by four scrap...
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
--can be taken away--
He looks at it.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
--without even a moment’s notice.
He tosses it into the embers...
LOUISA
...I made a deal with my Dad that I
wouldn’t give up if he didn’t...
She stares off at the embers. RABBI IMMANUEL turns to her.
RABBI IMMANUEL
You made him a deal?
LOUISA nods.
RABBI IMMANUEL gets up. He dusts himself off.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
Louisa... many have given their all
trying to wipe us out... and where
did they get?... Not very far.
They’ve tried to exterminate us
time and time again, but... here we
are. And even then! The moment they
stop trying, guess what? There is
G-d himself, again trying to wipe
us out! But even he cannot find a
way! Do you understand...? One
little synagogue?
He SPITS on the ground.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
Don’t bother me with this. It’s
nothing but ashes and dust.85.
She nods her head... unable to look at anything except the
embers.
She looks up at him.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
I will ask you again... you made a
deal with your father?
LOUISA
Uh huh.
RABBI IMMANUEL
That you would not give up, if he
didn’t...
LOUISA nods.
RABBI IMMANUEL (CONT’D)
And he didn’t give up did he?
LOUISA becomes stoic.
LOUISA
No.
RABBI IMMANUEL kneels down and puts his hands on her
shoulders.
RABBI IMMANUEL
Louisa, your father will always be
with you... and for that reason I
will suggest... that it is time now
for you to go ahead and hold up
your end of the deal.
INT. APARTMENT - DAY
CARSON stands on the couch. He holds the WRENCH as high up as
he can. LOUISA jumps and tries to grab it from him.
LOUISA
Gimme it.
CARSON
No.
LOUISA
Carson. Give it!!!
She rips the WRENCH from CARSON’S hands. He falls off the
couch.86.
She stuffs the WRENCH into her backpack, zips it closed and
rushes toward the door.
CARSON runs over. He does everything he can to block her from
leaving.
He uses all his might but she overpowers him. She throws him
onto the ground and gets outside.
CARSON darts back up and desperately hurls himself at the
door.
LOUISA pushes back against the door from the outside,
barricading him in.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
Carson, please!
CARSON
You can’t just leave me here!
LOUISA
You have to stay.
CARSON
No, you have to stay!!!
He pushes through and they tumble down.
EXT. APARTMENT - DAY
CARSON’S fallen down.
He’s hurt enough that LOUISA stops and helps him back up.
LOUISA
I need to go.
CARSON
No.
LOUISA
Just look after Mom.
CARSON
I don’t want to.
LOUISA
She needs you, ok?
CARSON backs down.
LOUISA gets onto her bike and rides away.87.
INT. APARTMENT - DAY
CARSON drags his feet down the hallway. He goes into his
room, face plants onto the bed and then rolls onto the
ground.
He goes to MOM’S ROOM. The door is slightly ajar... he
doesn’t go in. He just looks at it.
He goes back down to the kitchen and opens the fridge.
There’s nothing good. He slams the door, opens it and then
slams it back again.
He pushes the crown of his head into the fridge door and
walks forward. His socks slip against the tiles and he goes
nowhere. He spins around and sinks down to the tile.
CARSON looks at DAD’S CAR KEYS. They hang on a hook by the
telephone.
He goes to LOUISA’S room and looks at the plant drawings on
the wall...
The PARSHAH is on her desk. He takes it and looks at it
closely. He tries to sound out the Hebrew letters.
MOM watches him from the doorway. She comes in and sits on
the bed.
CARSON
...She wanted to have her Bat
Mitzvah a lot.
MOM
I know.
CARSON
But Mom...
MOM
Ya.
CARSON
You said it’s pretty dumb right?
MOM
...I don’t know Carson...
CARSON
What’s the point of even having
one?
MOM
...I don’t know.88.
CARSON
...Dad wanted her to.
MOM
I know.
CARSON squeezes the PARSHAH. Crumpling it.
CARSON
Did he want me to also?
MOM
Of course.
INT. APARTMENT - KITCHEN - DAY
GRANDMA puts grocery bags onto the counter. The phone rings.
She picks it up.
GRANDMA
Hello??????????????????????????
IZZY
Um. Hi. Is um... is Louisa there
please?
GRANDMA
Louisa?
IZZY
Yes.
GRANDMA
May I ask, who is calling?
IZZY
Um. It’s Izzy.
GRANDMA
Oh, Izzy bubbelech, one second, I
will go check. One second.
IZZY
Ok.
GRANDMA
One second.
GRANDMA gently places the phone down on the counter.
She goes to LOUISA’S ROOM and peers in...89.
GRANDMA (CONT’D)
Louisa?
MOM
It’s just us.
GRANDMA
She’s not home?
They look at CARSON.
MOM
You guys were slamming doors and
destroying the house no?
CARSON says nothing.
...MOM looks at all the plant drawings on the wall...
GRANDMA
Her friend is on the phone looking
for her.
CARSON runs past GRANDMA and down the hallway. CARSON takes
the phone off the KITCHEN counter...
CARSON
Hullo?
IZZY
Louisa?
CARSON
No... it’s Carson.
IZZY
Oh. Um. Well, is Louisa there?
CARSON
No.
Where is she?
IZZY
CARSON
She left.
IZZY
Where?
CARSON
...I dunno.90.
IZZY
Seriously?
CARSON
Uh huh.
IZZY
Well. Like... ok... did she tell
you what happened?
His eyes dart back and forth.
CARSON
Um... no.
IZZY
Like. The entire synagogue got lit
on fire and the whole Bat Mitzvah
class was like oh my G-d
seriously???!--
CARSON pushes the chair over. He climbs up to reach DAD’S CAR
KEYS.
IZZY (CONT’D)
--And everyone was literally
freaking out and I’m like... excuse
me where even is Louisa right now?
Like--
CARSON hangs up on her.
MOM and GRANDMA stand there.
CARSON stands on the chair holding DAD’S CAR KEYS.
CARSON
We gotta go.
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
A desolate prairie highway leads to seemingly nowhere in
either direction...
There are no trucks, no wind, no clouds... it might even be a
photograph... until a little dot appears.
LOUISA bikes down the road.
Her tires rip through the asphalt.
She pedals faster and faster.91.
She keeps riding until we can’t see her anymore...
A long stillness. Until...
--A big rig bursts through. It passes frame much faster than
LOUISA did.
...More stillness is intermittently broken up by random
zooming cars...
...The evening light settles in...
And then... DAD’S CAR rockets through--
EXT. DIRT TRAIL - EVENING
LOUISA speeds down the trail, destroying the path.
It’s the same place we first met her...
She curves around the root edge and rips down the hill.
She rumbles through overgrown branches and skids along the
hillside.
There are no buildings and there is no road. Only the massive
prairie sky and the creek at the bottom of the hill...
INT. PRAIRIE SYNAGOGUE - EVENING
RABBI ELMER leads prayers at the synagogue.
The audience is scarcely populated...
-A man and his son... the son we vaguely recognize... it’s
one of LOUISA’S former classmates... BRYAN... the kid with
the red afro.
-An elderly woman wipes dandruff off her husband’s jacket as
he falls in and out of a nap.
-A man in his mid forties follows along in his prayer book.
He nods back and forth. There are other men like this
scattered around the room as well.
-A family who are more dressed up for the occasion, they wear
things that itch.
...LOUISA quietly opens the door. She looks more dishevelled
than ever. Her face is beet red. Her overalls still ashy from
the city synagogue...92.
A few people from the congregation notice her come in but
they are relatively unfazed. Their attention scatters back to
the service.
LOUISA quietly goes to an empty bench. She puts her backpack
on the ground and takes a seat.
BRYAN relentlessly squints at her... she gives him a quick
wave. He looks away.
RABBI ELMER goes through a prayer...
LOUISA looks around the room... one of the men stares off
into space. The elderly woman is asleep now too. The family
whisper amongst themselves. No one in the room can wait to
get out of there.
The more LOUISA looks around the more the illusion wears off.
Is this really anything more than a bunch of people sitting
around, bored out of their trees, waiting for some old guy to
finish talking gibberish?
Her boots are covered in mud, her hands are all blistered...
she rode her bike all the way here... for what?
She gets up and walks up to the bima.
RABBI ELMER is mid prayer. He raises an eyebrow at her. She
interrupts...
LOUISA
Um... excuse me...
RABBI ELMER stops.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
...It’s um... I need to have my Bat
Mitzvah...
LOUISA stares at him.
LOUISA (CONT’D)
...I gotta read from that Torah
like you said, and so you gotta
take it down for me.
RABBI ELMER
Well... little girl, yes, I admire
the chutzpah but my G-d! What can
you expect barging in here,
interrupting the entire--
LOUISA
--Jesus Christ.93.
LOUISA pushes past him and goes toward the arc.
The front door bursts open-- Everyone’s attention goes to it--
It’s CARSON.
CARSON
MOMMM!!! COME ON!!!
LOUISA reaches up to open the arc and KNOCKS THE TORAH ONTO
THE GROUND.
The entire room freezes in place. Time has stopped.
MOM, GRANDMA and IZZY watch from the doorway.
IZZY
OhmyG-d. Ohmyg-d. OhmyG-d.
RABBI ELMER, the entire congregation and GRANDMA have turned
to stone... but no one more than BRYAN... his eyelids
dilated, his mouth agape.
The room is paralyzed by the death sentence.
No one knows what to do. RABBI ELMER is still in shock.
CARSON looks at LOUISA. She is still frozen.
CARSON looks at IZZY. Both of her hands cover her mouth.
CARSON looks at GRANDMA. She can’t even blink...
...and then... to MOM...
MOM walks up to the bima. She picks the TORAH up off the
ground and clunks it back onto the stand.
MOM
Ok. You’re up.
LOUISA steps up to the plate.
...RABBI ELMER is shocked and sick.
RABBI ELMER
What... have... you... done...
LOUISA looks at the TORAH on the stand. She doesn’t know what
to do.
LOUISA
...Um... I don’t know how to find
it...94.
MOM
Oh G-d. Um...
MOM looks at the TORAH. She has no idea what to do either.
She looks to RABBI ELMER.
MOM (CONT’D)
Can you help her?
RABBI ELMER
HELP??? DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHAT
YOU’VE--
MOM
--Ok relax. It’s just a--
She waves her hand at the TORAH.
MOM (CONT’D)
--Book or... whatever.
CARSON comes up and slams the loose leaf PARSHAH down in
front of LOUISA.
CARSON
You forgot this! On your desk!!!
LOUISA looks at the PARSHAH. It’s crumpled, stained and
ripped. MOM and CARSON go to sit with GRANDMA and IZZY.
RABBI ELMER nods back and forth. He is lost in a desperate
prayer... begging for forgiveness.
...LOUISA looks back at her family. GRANDMA is proud to watch
her. IZZY smiles and gives her a thumbs up. CARSON fidgets
and tugs on MOM’S arm. MOM says something to him that calms
him down.
LOUISA looks out the window...
...It frames DAD’S CAR in the same way it used to look from
out her bedroom window... and for a moment it’s like he’s
home...
LOUISA looks back at her family one more time before she
begins.


















Highway. The woods are jagged in the horizon. Set like a bear trap waiting to snap closed and swallow the sky.

Turns into a motel. He exits the car with a bag full of fast food garbage and coffee cups. Stuffs it all into a trash can on his way in.
Stands at the counter. She types into the computer.
We got bananas and oranges and fruits like that.
Uh huh.
And there’s a waffle maker too. And oatmeal and cereal. Little
boxes. Until eleven.
He looks at his watch. 
Any exceptions?
In another life I’d offer to sneak you something. But we got cameras
installed now.
Right. Well. I appreciate the thought.
She passes him back the credit card and gives him a room key.
Where’s good to get something to eat around here then?
Well. Depends what you’re in the mood for. You want a sit down meal? Or something quick?
Something quick would do.
She studies his face.
I know.
She grabs a pamphlet map from the desk and draws the directions onto it as she talks.
You’re gonna wanna take the highway into town. And then go down Main. Follow it to Walnut. Take a right. And you’ll see this place. 
She draws a big circle onto the map.
The sign says Butcher & Deli. And they’ll make you a great big sandwich. You’re gonna love it. 
She smiles brightly.
Ok. Appreciate that.
She slides him the map. He looks it over.

Can I ask you something?
Yah.
I noticed your badge.
Uh huh.
Are you a city cop?
I am.
Really?
Yup.
Wow.
Yah.
Are you here on business?
I am.
To solve a crime?
Yes.
Is it a bad one?
You could say so.
Wow. That’s exciting. I mean. Not that something bad happened. But um. You know.
He nods.
Well. If there’s anything else I can do for you. Just let me know ok?
Thank you.
And. Good luck out there!
Thank you.

He exits the highway and drives into town. The sky is barren behind a pair of red flashing street lights that hang from a thin wire and move in the wind. He drives over a speed bump. 

He watches a boy help a woman carry two large paper bags. The boy struggles, the meat is too heavy for the bag to hold. She opens the trunk and the boy packs the bags into the trunk of her car.

What can I get you? The butcher asks him
Wondering if I could ask you about this photo here.
Moskowitz slides the photo onto the counter. It is of a woman in her mid twenties. She has a toothy cartoon smile. She looks bright and egredioulsly happy. 
The butcher adjusts his glasses and looks closely at the photo.
My Dad was law enforcement.
Was he?
She gone missing or something like that?

They are distracted by the young butcher entering back into the shop.
Moskowitz watches the woman's car drive out of the parking lot.
BUTCHER (CONT'D)

The Butcher looks at the photo again.

I don’t recognize her. What about you kid?
The boy looks at the photo and shrugs. 

You go down to Water street? 
No.
Water street. End of the road. Take a left. At the end of the block. Head to Main. Keep going. Water street. Making a disneyland of it all.

How’s that pastrami? He points to the display case.
Worth the detour. If nothing else.
Better than the corned beef? 
Depends on you. 

He eats a pastrami sandwich as he drives and coasts along another speed bump.

Two women stand on the street corner. One waves at him. She wears a neon animal pattern. He rolls down the window. She leans in.

Howdy.
This the disneyland I’m hearing about?
Um. You betcha.
I could hop in if you want?

He shows her the photo of the girl. 

You recognize her?

She shrugs.

What about your buddy there?

The other woman is knelt over and trying to pluck something from a crack in the sidewalk.

The woman reaches her hands into the car to warm them on the heater. 

He shows her another photo. The woman lies dead on the gurney. There are rebar sized holes in her chest and abdomen.
Jesus
You know her or not?
No. I don’t.
Alright.
The woman waits. He stares blankly out the windshield.
So?
So what?
Seriously?
What?
You know what, mister?
What?
You’re rude.
She kicks his car and walks away. 

He drives to the end of the block, towards the bridge. He parks and goes to the riverside. 

He stares into the water and then looks at a photo of girl on his phone. Her body is wet and limp and hangs in the air like a mop. She hovers above the water, held up by two pieces of rebar that have peirced through her. He looks at the map on his phone. He looks from the blue dot that shows where he is. 

His phone rings. 

I’m with the Sheriff’s department here in town. We spoke earlier. You make it in alright?

I did. Got a room off the highway there. Place you recommended.

Good. Listen. You able to come by the station? We got someone I think you’re going to want to speak with. Sooner the better I’d say.
Alright.

He stands beside the coffee machine with the officer and fills a small styrofoam cup.
The officer hands him a photocopy of a picture of a woman. 

We were looking for her. Maybe a year and a half or so. And after all that searching. Going through the woods with the dogs. She just up and walks in through the front door. Some of the guys at the station here. She taught their kids. Fifth grade, sixth grade something like that. 

Where’d she say she went off to?
God knows.
Tell you what. I had some of the guys looking for the damn tv remote. Thought maybe we could turn her off mute. Couldn’t get her to say a damn word. Woman’s shell shocked.

He sips the coffee still looking at the poster of her.

Took some hours like I said. But she pointed out your woman. Saying she took her infant baby.

Pointed out mine. He looks at him and then at the cork board that hangs above them. It’s covered in overlapping missing persons posters. He drinks the rest of his coffee and then refills his cup.

In the room. She is emaciated and her head is turned away from him. She stares at a point of the room and intermittently squeezes her eyes shut in random intervals. She mutters to herself and taps her fingers together. He takes the smiling photo of the woman and shows it to her.

She freezes and stares at the picture and begins to blink more ordinarily.

You recognize her?

She looks at him momentarily and then goes back to how she was before. 

Hey.

She doesn’t respond.

The other guy told me you got a kid.
She still ignores him.

He said you might have come into contact with the woman in the
picture here.

She taps her fingers together. 

This woman in the picture here. She’s dead. Alright? But if you got a baby out there. Then we got to figure that out. So. Come on.

She stops tapping her fingers. Instead she repeatedly pushes her fingers into her palm.

You know her or not?

She still doesn't say anything. 

He slouches in his chair. He takes his cell phone and opens the map and scrolls towards the river. He faces the screen towards her.

Show me where you were then. 

The screen’s brightness hollows her cheekbones. She looks at the map for a long time.

She puts her fingers on the screen and moves the map upwards until she begins to squint, like it is hurting her eyes. She looks up at him. 

Can you. Find him? She asks.

I’ll um.

Her hand touches his. 

He walks along the mud and the riverside through the trees. They become more dense and cover the sky and the moonlight fades away. He uses a flashlight to make his way forward and walks for some time and eventually the trees become so dense that he cannot find a way to go farther. He points the flashlight upward. The branches are harsh and infinite and he cannot see the sky. He turns off the flashlight.
The silence and the darkness seems to consume him entirely until the canopy opens and the moon becomes bright again.

He is where she showed him. He walks towards a clearing. There is a faint dripping sound that comes from a large sewage outlet ahead. The tunnel walls are coated in an oily moss. The flashlight cannot discern where the tunnel leads. What begins as a slight puddle beneath him eventually becomes a thick mass of stagnant black water. The tunnel extends and pools deeper. A twin yellow blur forms in the distance. He follows it until it fades into a shadow. He is slow to walk further and holds the flashlight in front of him but the blackness is so pungent that the flashlight does nothing to illuminate anything. He remains still, until the puddle below him quivers and a piercing gnaw locks onto his ankle.
He yells and when he drops the flashlight he sees there is no ground beneath him. He becomes submerged into the muck below. He sinks further into the sludge until he is enveloped completely. He flails as he tries to find a hold somewhere.

He gasps finally at the surface. The twin yellow lights bloom towards him. They form into red piercing glare. He runs towards the darkness until he falls towards a rusted steel gate. He kicks it repeatedly until it breaks open and he lands in the mud. He tries to use the light on his cell phone but its broken. He now only has the moon to follow. He pushes through the blur of trees, covered in the sewer gunk. And somehow the town emits a warm light in the distance.

Back to Water street. He leans on a newspaper box and vomits onto the ground. There are more women there now. The one he spoke to earlier,
with the neon animal print notices him. She waves at him sympathetically, and after he cleans the puke off his chin, he waves back.

He wakes up under the bed, naked and the carpet is imprinted on his face. He pulls himself upward and looks out the window. His car is parked across two spots, the wheel is up on the curb.
He blow dries the photo of the woman, it is covered in sludge. The missing person’s poster is ok. His cell phone is destroyed. The screen is smashed and it is also covered in the sludge.

The elevator dings open.
Morning!

Morning.

The breakfast nook is already closed down. He looks at the clock. It’s past eleven. He withholds his disappointment.
I um.
All good.
Sorry.
You mind if I use the phone there?
Oh. Um. Sure. She faces it towards him.
You got the number for the sheriff’s department?
I think so.
She looks it up and dials it for him.
Thanks.

It rings through. He looks at her and she looks away. She looks back at him and he smiles awkwardly and then looks away and she smiles at him. 

Is there uh. Place I could get a new phone? Mine got wrecked.

Oh. Certainly. Yeah. Of course.

She takes another map pamphlet and marks down the directions.

You can take the highway to the mall. There’s a place close to the food court. That’s where I got mine.

He looks at the map.

Whereabouts is Water street here?

Water street?

Yeah.

Oh. Um.
She points along and he notices the engagement ring on her finger.
Right.
Sorry?
Nothing.
It starts here. And basically goes along the river.
Alright. What about the woods here. Any trails around there? 
Oh. Do you mean for like for hiking or something?
Sure. 
Well there aren’t really any trails above Water street. That’s just forest. But. I don't know. 
He takes the brochure.
She gives him a faint smile.
Um. Hey.
She nods her head and goes off to the side to avoid the camera angle. He follows her over. She discreetly passes him a banana and a small box of cereal.
I um.
Oh. Hey. Thanks.
I just. Just don’t tell anyone alright?
Alright. That’s very kind of you.
Ok. And be careful. If you’re going through the woods.
Thank you.


He leans over the counter and watches as the guy at the kiosk carefully opens his sludge covered phone. The microchips are corroded and deranged.
Can you get the info off that?
I don’t know man. It might be toast.
Toast eh?
Ya
You want to give it a shot?
The guy uses a tweezer to grab a certain chip but it breaks.
Yah.
What?
It’s gone for.
Right.
The guy pushes the phone back to him.
I can set you up with a new one if you’d like.
Yeah. What do we got here?
He looks at all of the options. 
Hey. Uh. Sir?
Yah?
Are you a cop?
Yah.
You think I could ask you something?
Ok.
Well ok. Um. My mom. I think she’s becoming. A um.
What?
A um. Prostitute.
Oh. 
And um. Well. Never mind.
Go ahead. 
It’s okay.
What kid?
I guess I’m just wondering if there’s anything I can do.
In what way?
Like. To stop her?
Right.
Do you think if. Like. If I call the cops on her, what would they
do?
How do you mean?
If I told them she was becoming a prostitute. Like would they talk to
her? And maybe give her a warning.
I don’t know.
Do you think they would arrest her?
Doubtful.
Alright. Well. Alright.
What?
It’s just. When my dad died. I promised him I’d look out for her
and. You know.
Right.
So do you think you can help me?
How so?
Like with my mom.
What do you want me to do?
Can you get her off the street?
Buddy. I don’t know.
Here.
The fellow shows him a picture on his phone. It’s of him and his mother. She is the woman in the neon animal print.
Right. I’ll uh. I’ll keep an eye out. How about that?
Thank you. That um. Means a lot.
Great.
Thanks for talking to me about it.
No problem.
He looks between the phones.
She got a camera. Like an internet one. 
Sorry?
Your mom.
What do you mean?
She know how to use the internet and all that?
Uh. Not really I guess.
Well. Maybe she could go on the internet. You know. Get her an internet camera and all of that. Instead of freezing her ass off out there. You know. Might help.
Oh.
He shrugs.
Yeah. Uh. Thanks. That’s a good idea. I’ll uh. Yeah. Thank you.
He nods, assuringly.

He sits at a table in the food court. Looking at the missing person's flyer. He dials the number into his new cell phone. He holds it under his ear as it rings and walks towards a fast food restaurant.
INT. CONDO - DAY
MICHELLE answers her cell phone.
She looks extremely similar to Cassandra, perhaps identical.
She is dressed in expensive looking clothes. The view from
her condo overlooks the city skyline.
MICHELLE
Hello?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah. Uh. Detective Lou Moskowitz
here. City police.
MICHELLE
Oh. Um. Hello.
MOSKOWITZ
May I ask, who I’m speaking with
here?
MICHELLE
Sorry?
MOSKOWITZ
Do you have any relation to
Cassandra Olstein?
MICHELLE
Oh. Um. Yes. Sorry. Did you say you
were with the police?
MOSKOWITZ
I am, yah. Has anyone from the
sheriff’s department been in touch
with you? You hear from them at
all?
MICHELLE
Sheriff’s department? Um. Not
recently. Is. Sorry. Is everything?
Ok?
MOSKOWITZ
I’m uh. You’re related to Cassandra
Olstein?44.
44.
MICHELLE
I’m her sister.
MOSKOWITZ
Right. I understand she’d been
missing for some time. Is that
right?
MICHELLE
Um. Yes.
MOSKOWITZ
They didn’t call you?
MICHELLE
No.
MOSKOWITZ
Jesus.
MICHELLE
Sorry. What are you saying? Did
you?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah. She came in. She’s there.
MICHELLE
Oh my god.
MOSKOWITZ
Yah.
MICHELLE
She’s where?
MOSKOWITZ
At the station. The sheriff’s
office there. In town.
MICHELLE
Oh my god. Is she okay?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes. I um. I spoke with her last
night. And.
MICHELLE
You saw her? She’s okay?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.45.
45.
MICHELLE
Sorry. I’m. I don’t know what to
say.
MOSKOWITZ
Could I get a breakfast sandwich
and a coffee. Hashbrown. Yah.
Great. Sorry. Um. Sorry what was
your name again?
MICHELLE
Michelle.
MOSKOWITZ
Michelle. I missed what you said
there. Sorry. I’m just ordering
something to eat here.
MICHELLE
Um. She’s okay?
MOSKOWITZ
She’s there. She’s shaken up. But.
MICHELLE
Can I see her? I’m going to drive
up.
MOSKOWITZ
Where are you located?
MICHELLE
I’m in the city.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.
MICHELLE
Sorry. I’m just like. I’m shocked.
I’m just like. Are you being
serious right now?
MOSKOWITZ
She’s there ma’am.
And she’s okay?
MICHELLE
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
MICHELLE
Where? Was she?46.
46.
MOSKOWITZ
She um. She just up and walked into
the station. Way I understand it.
MICHELLE
Where was she though? She can’t
just. Up and walk into the station.
After.
MOSKOWITZ
She isn’t the most. Talkative.
MICHELLE
I um. Can I see her?
MOSKOWITZ
I imagine so. If they uh.
MICHELLE
I’m going to drive up.
MOSKOWITZ
If they give you any trouble. You
can give me a call here.
MICHELLE
Ok. I’m uh. I should be a couple
hours. Maybe less. I’m. Can you
remind me your name again?
MOSKOWITZ
Moskowitz.
MICHELLE
Moskowitz. Detective?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
MICHELLE
Ok. Thank you. Detective. I can’t
thank you enough. But.
MOSKOWITZ
You want to give me a call after
you see her?
MICHELLE
Yes. On this number here?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah. That works.47.
47.
MICHELLE
Ok. Great. And. She’s really okay?
MOSKOWITZ
She’s alright. You go ahead and
we’ll talk then, alright?
MICHELLE
Ok. Great. Sorry. I’m just. I don’t
know.
MOSKOWITZ
Let me ask you one thing. If I
could.
MICHELLE
Yea?
MOSKOWITZ
She had a child or?
MICHELLE
Sorry?
MOSKOWITZ
Did she have a kid?
MICHELLE
Cassie?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
MICHELLE
Um. No. She didn’t.
MOSKOWITZ
No child.
MICHELLE
No. Um. Why? Exactly?
MOSKOWITZ
You sure?
MICHELLE
Yes.
MOSKOWITZ
Ok.
MICHELLE
I’ll call you back ok?48.
48.
MOSKOWITZ
Ok.
MICHELLE
Thank you Detective.

He finishes the breakfast sandwich and tosses the wrapper into the garbage can. Through the parking lot. He gets back into his car and speeds out of the parking lot.

He holds his coffee carefully so it doesn’t spill as he drives over another speed bump. He parks in front of a quaint and humble home. And reads an address on the case file.

The house is well kept and delicate. A cigarette burns in the ashtray by the window.
Her mother shows him into the living room. She looks ghostly, her eyes are swollen and glazed over. 
I’ll get you a coffee.
That’s alright.

She ignores him and disappears into the kitchen. Another framed copy of the photograph that he had of her sits on the mantel above the television.

She ran away from home once. When she was a girl. She didn’t make it
past the playground at the middle school.

Oh. That’s um.

She comes back with a cup of coffee for him. Her hands shake as she hands him the cup.

Thank you. He takes a sip.

Is it cold?

It’s fine. Thank you.

She takes it back from him and puts it into the microwave. He watches the trail of smoke twirl from the ashtray but is distracted by a flash that emits from the kitchen. Nothing to worry. That’s just from the cup. It’s fake gold leaf.

He nods and tries to smile politely.

He looks more closely at the photographs on the mantel. There is a photo of her and another girl. They wear swim suits and stand in front of the sand castles they’d built. 
They were inseparable. Since they met. On the first day of the first grade.

She hands him the coffee.

They were so lucky to have each other.
She smiles, faintly and takes a scrapbook from under the coffee table. The scrapbook is full of photos of the girls, they are roller skating, eating birthday cake and dressing in halloween costumes. Becoming slightly older on each page.

You got a contact number for her?
Sure. I can give you that.
She goes to the kitchen.
I um. Have you spoken to her?
No. I haven’t.
If you do. I wonder if you could ask her to call me. 
He nods.
She comes back from the kitchen with a number written down on a floral paper.

Could you tell me about the day she went missing?
She lights another cigarette.

Yes. She was here in the morning. And we were just cleaning up and she was getting ready for work. And then she came and picked her up. They were going to go for lunch I think. Before work.

She gave her a lift?
Yes.
Can you tell me about her work?

She worked at St. Mary’s Outreach Center. This would have been her fourth year there.

What was that like for her?

What was what?

Working there.

Oh. It was hard. But. She cared a lot about the people in the community.

Up on Water street there?

Yes.

Is there anyone. Who may have had any issue with her?

Oh, no. I mean. She really did get a long with everyone. Maybe too much so. That was kind of. Sometimes. You could say. That she lost herself in other people.

How do you mean?

She just really. She had a way of helping people. But too much. It
was hard for her to look out for herself. Sometimes. Because. She
was looking out for others.

Right.

I always tell her. To make sure she put her oxygen mask on first.
Before helping others. But. I don’t know. I don’t know who would ever want to hurt her. She was. She never did anything to hurt anyone. She really didn’t.

He nods. 
She offers him a cigarette.
I’m good.
She lights one for herself.
Was she um. Was she a caretaker for any. Children or toddlers at all?

Sorry?
Did she mention any newborns. In the last year or so? Even in passing?

I’m not sure. Exactly. Um. She babysat for the Summers family
across the street. When she was in middle school. She used to go over there. You know. On the weekends.

I see.

Am I able to look around at all?

Sorry?

She kept a bedroom here?
URSULA
Oh. Yes. She did.
MOSKOWITZ
Would you mind if I took a look?
URSULA
Um.
Ursula looks uncomfortable.
URSULA (CONT'D)
Perhaps you could come back at some
point. It’s just. Really messy.
And. I just. I wouldn’t want her to
give the wrong impression. Since
she hadn’t cleaned it up. Before.
Ursula’s eyes well up. She begins to weep.
MOSKOWITZ
That’s alright. I’m sorry.54.
54.
URSULA
I’m sorry.
MOSKOWITZ
I can come back. It’s um. It’s
alright.
He sits quietly as she cries.
He goes onto his new cell phone and tries to understand the
map function.
He finds the spot that Cassandra showed him.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
If I could ask.
He faces the phone towards her.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Do you know anything about this
area? On the map.
Ursula wipes her eyes and looks at the screen.
URSULA
What?
MOSKOWITZ
This area of the woods. Does it?
URSULA
I. I really don’t know Detective.
I’m sorry.
MOSKOWITZ
Thank you for your time. I. I
appreciate it.
EXT. NEIGHBOURHOOD - DAY
Moskowitz dials the number from the floral paper that Ursula
gave him.
As it rings he passes a woman who pushes a baby stroller down
the street.
The call goes to voicemail. A robot tells him that the
mailbox in not in service.55.
55.
EXT. LIBRARY - DAY
Susan eats a salad on her lunch break.
Her phone rings.
The number is unknown.
She doesn’t answer the call.
EXT. OUTREACH CENTER - DAY
A woman stands on the sidewalk and changes her shirt. Her
legs are pretzeled.
She is stuck in a contorted position and tilted forward.
A man sits in the middle of the street and picks a scab from
his calf.
INT. OUTREACH CENTER - DAY
The floors are wet with mop water.
Moskowitz sits with RITA. She wears a t-shirt and looks quite
strong.
They watch black and white surveillance tapes.
RITA
Why are you dealing with this and
not one of ours?
MOSKOWITZ
Huh?
RITA
Why are you here?
MOSKOWITZ
Her body was found in the city.
RITA
Well I hope it makes a difference.
MOSKOWITZ
How’s that?
RITA
Maybe you city cops are different.56.
56.
MOSKOWITZ
In what way?
RITA
Cops here. Detective.
She rolls her eyes.
RITA (CONT'D)
Sheriff Heather.
Rita shakes her head.
RITA (CONT'D)
She couldn’t find her ass with a
map.
MOSKOWITZ
That right?
RITA
She’s never been anything more than
a playground bully. You know. This
town man.
Rita sighs.
Moskowitz nods.
The footage on the screen shows Nicole exiting a sedan.
She walks into the outreach center.
MOSKOWITZ
Whose car is that?
RITA
I’m not sure.
MOSKOWITZ
Can you pause it there.
She pauses it.
Moskowitz tries to make out the plate number but it is too
blurry.
All he can see is that the sedan is a Toyota.
Nicole walks onto the next another screen, down the hallway.
She waves at Rita who sits in the office.57.
57.
RITA
That would have been the last time
I saw her.
Nicole goes into the lunch room.
She puts a plastic bag into the fridge.
She sits at the table and goes onto her cell phone.
MOSKOWITZ
You mind showing me to the room
there?
RITA
Uh huh.
INT. OUTREACH CENTER - LUNCH ROOM - DAY
Moskowitz opens the fridge.
He finds the white plastic bag that Nicole put into the
fridge.
MOSKOWITZ
This that bag?
RITA
Probably.
There is a styrofoam container inside. He opens it.
There is rotten soup. Rice noodles, tofu and star cut
carrots.
MOSKOWITZ
You know where this’d be from?
Rita shrugs.
RITA
Looks like Vietnamese. But.
Moskowitz nods.
MOSKOWITZ
Which place woulda this been?
RITA
I mean. I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.58.
58.
Moskowitz closes the soup.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
There anyone that might have had
any reason to hurt her, to your
knowledge?
RITA
I don’t think so.
MOSKOWITZ
Do you know anyone named Cassandra
Olstein?
RITA
I don’t actually.
MOSKOWITZ
You said you knew most of the folks
out there?
RITA
I do. I know most all of them.
MOSKOWITZ
And no Cassandra?
RITA
Nope.
MOSKOWITZ
She was a teacher at the school
there. Grade five or so.
RITA
I don’t actually know.
MOSKOWITZ
You ever come across any newborns
in the encampment there?
RITA
Excuse me?
MOSKOWITZ
You ever come across any newborns
in the encampment there?
RITA
I heard you.
He waits for an answer.59.
59.
RITA (CONT'D)
Man. Detective. No. There’s no
newborns out there. And if there
was. Man. There isn’t. We’re out
there every day. Talking to people.
Working with them. We’d know about
it. Sorry. But. We would know.
MOSKOWITZ
Alright.
RITA
Can I ask why exactly?
MOSKOWITZ
Cassandra Olstein.
RITA
Uh huh.
MOSKOWITZ
She’s saying she lost her child out
there.
Rita nods.
RITA
Listen. Detective. Can I just say
something?
MOSKOWITZ
Uh huh.
RITA
What does this have to do with
Nicole?
MOSKOWITZ
She’s saying Nicole took her baby.
Rita looks deeply confused.
RITA
You know. Man. Are you fuckin
crazy? Nicole didn’t steal a
fucking baby. Man.
Moskowitz nods.
He puts the soup container back into the fridge.
MOSKOWITZ
Don’t toss that out.60.
60.
Dude, really?
RITA
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
EXT. STREET - DAY
Moskowitz holds the cell phone on speaker as he drives. He
floats over another speed bump.
WALLACE
Sheriff’s department.
MOSKOWITZ
Is Usnavy in?
WALLACE
Usnavy?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah.
There is a long silence.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Hello?
WALLACE
This the city cop again?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah. Listen can you look up, did
anyone pull over any Toyota Sedans
in the last week?
WALLACE
Huh?
MOSKOWITZ
Toyota Sedans.
WALLACE
Said he’d get back to you right?
MOSKOWITZ
Man, is he in or not?
WALLACE
Nope.
Moskowitz hangs up and punches the wheel in frustration.61.
61.
MOSKOWITZ
Fuck off then.
Moskowitz revs down the road. He drives faster and faster.
Going towards two hundred miles.
Sirens appear in the rear view.
Moskowitz smiles. He slows down.
The car approaches and parks behind him. A COP gets out and
comes to his window.
COP
Licence and registration please.
Moskowitz gets it.
COP (CONT'D)
You in some kind of rush?
MOSKOWITZ
Yeah.
COP
Everything alright?
MOSKOWITZ
Man.
COP
Where you headed?
MOSKOWITZ
Huh?
COP
Can you step out of the vehicle?
MOSKOWITZ
Can you go fuck yourself man?
COP
Step out of the vehicle. Sir.
MOSKOWITZ
Listen. Man. Just write the fuckin
ticket. Let’s go. Does it look like
I have time for this shit? Come on.
COP
Sir. I’m going to ask you to step
out of the vehicle.62.
62.
MOSKOWITZ
Then fucking ask man.
The cop stares at him until he gets out.
COP
Hands on the vehicle please.
MOSKOWITZ
Man.
COP
Hands on the vehicle. Sir.
The cop reaches for his pistol. Moskowitz clocks him in the
jaw. The cop falls to the road. He lifts his head.
COP (CONT'D)
What the fuck.
Moskowitz puts his foot onto the man’s head and shows him his
badge.
MOSKOWITZ
You want to play cops and robbers?
Motherfucker. Man. You want to make
yourself useful? Go and track down
any Toyota sedans. Alright? Toyota
fucking sedans. We got a fucking
infant abducted and your sitting on
your dick writing speeding tickets
on this fuckin service road. Man?
Moskowitz disarms the cop’s gun and throws the pieces in
opposite directions.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Toyota sedans. Go search your
grandma’s house, the fucking
hardware store, the ice cream shop.
Whatever the fuck. But you stay the
fuck out of my way.
He lifts his foot off the cop’s head. He picks him up by the
collar.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
And tell your fucking cunt buddies
that if they see me coming they can
fuck off. Alright?
COP
Uh. Uh huh.63.
63.
MOSKOWITZ
Good. Now fuck off.
The cop goes back to his car. He looks back at Moskowitz.
Moskowitz gets back into his car and speeds off.
EXT. VIETNAMESE RESTUARANT - DAY
Moskowitz sits at a booth. His face is hidden by a plastic
menu.
A SERVER stands at the end of the table and awaits his order.
MOSKOWITZ
You got vegetable soup?
SERVER
Yes.
MOSKOWITZ
Ok. Gimmie that.
The server nods and walks off.
Moskowitz sits anxiously. His knee bounces up and down. His
patience has become thin.
Eventually the soup arrives. Moskowitz looks through it with
a spoon.
The carrots are not star cut.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
For fuck’s sake.
INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY
Susan looks at the axes.
She looks at the guns.
She looks at the knives.
EXT. HARDWARE STORE - PARKING LOT - DAY
Susan walks back to her car. She has the knife in a bag.
She sees VLAD.64.
64.
SUSAN
No.
She puts her hand out.
VLAD
Please.
SUSAN
No. Fuck off.
VLAD
Can we just talk?
SUSAN
No.
He touches her shoulder. She pushes him onto the ground.
SUSAN (CONT'D)
Fuck off.
He gets up.
VLAD
I just. I miss her. Susan. I miss
her so much. And. And now she’s
gone. She’s fucking gone. And. I
don’t know. I just. I just wanted
to talk. I just want to talk.
Please.
Susan stares at him.
SUSAN
What do you want?
VLAD
I don’t know. Can I just talk to
you?
She doesn’t say anything. She stands there. Holding the bag.
VLAD (CONT'D)
Why were you at that guy’s house?
SUSAN
Excuse me?
VLAD
I don’t know.
SUSAN
Were you following me?65.
65.
VLAD
I. Just. I don’t know.
SUSAN
You fucking stalker.
She walks to her car. He grabs her arm. He is crying.
She tries to pull away from him but he is stronger than her.
VLAD
Please just talk to me. Please
Susan.
SUSAN
Dude. Fuck off.
VLAD
I think I did something fucked up.
SUSAN
Nicole hated you. She fucking hated
you.
VLAD
Just listen to me. Please. I don’t
know who else to talk to ok?
SUSAN
No one. Talk to fucking no one. How
about that?
VLAD
The guy. That you went to this
morning. I took him. And. I. I
think I did something bad to him.
But. I didn’t mean to. I really
didn’t mean to.
Susan looks at him.
SUSAN
Oh Vlad. I’m so sorry.
He looks downward.
SUSAN (CONT'D)
I’m so sorry this has been so hard
for you.
He look consoled by this.
SUSAN (CONT'D)
You loved her so much didn’t you?66.
66.
He nods.
Her expression becomes angry. She grabs him by the throat and
spits in his face.
SUSAN (CONT'D)
Stop making this about you. And
fuck off.
She squeezes his throat.
SUSAN (CONT'D)
She didn’t fucking love you. She
hated you. All you did for her.
Ever. Was make her life more of a
living fucking hell. Now fuck off.
You fucking baby.
EXT. STRIP MALL - DAY
Moskowitz drives into a strip mall.
There is corner store, a dry cleaner and a restaurant called
Pho Lihn.
INT. PHO LIHN RESTAURANT - DAY
The SERVER gets up quickly when Moskowitz enters.
PHO LIHN SERVER
Hello! Sit where you like.
Moskowitz sits by the window. The server brings him a glass
of water and a menu.
MOSKOWITZ
Let me ask you something.
PHO LIHN SERVER
The beef noodle special. A special
price until four p.m.
He shows her a picture of Nicole. She is dead on the gurney.
MOSKOWITZ
You recognize her?
The server puts on her glasses. She looks at the photo.
PHO LIHN SERVER
She comes. With her friend. Good
customers.67.
67.
MOSKOWITZ
She orders the soup. That right?
PHO LIHN SERVER
Yes.
MOSKOWITZ
With the carrots?
PHO LIHN SERVER
Tofu vegetable rice noodle soup.
Moskowitz nods.
PHO LIHN SERVER (CONT'D)
Large bowl?
MOSKOWITZ
Does it have the carrots. Jagged
like?
PHO LIHN SERVER
Star cut carrots.
MOSKOWITZ
Right. Good.
PHO LIHN SERVER
Large tofu vegetable rice noodle
soup.
She writes down the order and goes to the kitchen. She comes
back with a plate of sprouts and limes.
Moskowitz nibbles on them and looks out the window.
He watches a man park and enter the dry cleaner next door.
INT. DRY CLEANER - DAY
Moskowitz shows the picture of Nicole to the DRY CLEANER.
DRY CLEANER
What are you asking me exactly?
MOSKOWITZ
You recognize her?
DRY CLEANER
A lot of customers over the years?
MOSKOWITZ
Oh yeah?68.
68.
DRY CLEANER
Uh huh.
MOSKOWITZ
You got a lot of customers here?
DRY CLEANER
Yup.
MOSKOWITZ
How many?
DRY CLEANER
I don’t know.
Moskowitz squeezes his fist repeatedly. His temper is
flaring. He punches the door open on his way out.
INT. CONVENIENCE STORE - DAY
Moskowitz waits in line. The person ahead of him buys
cigarettes.
Moskowitz looks up at the security camera. He shows his badge
to the CLERK.
MOSKOWITZ
How many angles you got from those?
CLERK
The store.
MOSKOWITZ
Nothing on the outside?
CLERK
No.
MOSKOWITZ
You mind if I take a look?
The clerk looks like he is withholding something.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
What?
The clerk doesn’t say anything.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Man. I am getting pissed off
dealing with mother fuckers in this
town.69.
69.
CLERK
It’s not a real camera.
MOSKOWITZ
They’re dupes?
The clerk nods.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
They’re fucking dupes man?
The clerks continues to nod.
Moskowitz slams his fist on the counter and leaves.
INT. THRIFT STORE - DAY
There is a woman behind the till, AMANDA, she looks runt-ish
and her hair looks like a faded strawberry. She doesn’t
smile, she looks abrasive.
AMANDA
Can I help you?
Moskowitz shows her his badge.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
We don’t usually buy props.
He smirks.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
That real?
He hands it to her.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
You sure this isn’t from toys r us?
MOSKOWITZ
It’s from the dollar store.
He takes the badge back and trades it for the photo of
Nicole.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Wondering if you recognize this
woman.
AMANDA
Do you need a warrant or something?70.
70.
MOSKOWITZ
For what?
AMANDA
Like. Berating me with questions.
MOSKOWITZ
You recognize her or not?
Amanda looks at the photo for a long time.
AMANDA
It’s my day to be lazy.
MOSKOWITZ
Excuse me?
Amanda takes a binder from under the till. She flips back a
few pages and finds what she was looking for.
AMANDA
It’s my day to be lazy.
She faces the binder to Moskowitz.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
Grey crew neck.
MOSKOWITZ
Huh.
AMANDA
Eight dollars.
Moskowitz nods.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
It had like a little cartoon
monster on it.
MOSKOWITZ
Which day?
AMANDA
Thursday.
He nods.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
She came in with the librarian
girl.
MOSKOWITZ
Librarian girl?71.
71.
AMANDA
Yeah.
MOSKOWITZ
Which librarian girl?
AMANDA
I dunno. She’s like. A librarian.
MOSKOWITZ
Which library?
AMANDA
There’s only one.
MOSKOWITZ
Where is it?
AMANDA
Off Walnut.
Moskowitz nods.
MOSKOWITZ
You sell any other sweaters like
that?
AMANDA
Like what?
MOSKOWITZ
That say that on it?
AMANDA
No.
MOSKOWITZ
You sure?
AMANDA
It’s all consignment and vintage.
One of a kind.
MOSKOWITZ
Right. No other place you could buy
a sweater like that?
AMANDA
I doubt it.
MOSKOWITZ
Huh.72.
72.
AMANDA
Did you solve the mystery then
Detective?
He shakes his head at her and leaves the shop.
EXT. LIBRARY - DAY
Moskowitz looks through the cars in the parking lot. There is
a Toyota sedan.
He looks into the window. There is a bag from the Butcher &
Deli in the back seat.
Moskowitz takes a photo of it on his cell phone.
He takes a photo of the license plate as well.
INT. LIBRARY - DAY
SUSAN organizes a stack of books. She has long brown hair, it
is uncombed. Her eyes look beady and miserable.
There is a bandaid that runs across a cut that follows along
her eyebrow.
Her face is thin and bird like. She wears a wool skirt and a
hoodie. There is a lanyard hanging around her neck.
She fans through a return stack of books. She discards the
bookmarks and random slips of paper that have been left
between the pages.
She watches Moskowitz enter the library.
He does not see her. He talks to an EMPLOYEE at the desk. He
shows them a photo of Nicole.
The employee points Susan out to him.
He walks towards her. She puts down the book she holds.
MOSKOWITZ
Are you the uh? Friend?
She nods.
He looks around.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Decent branch here.73.
73.
SUSAN
Um. Thank you.
MOSKOWITZ
I’m sorry about your friend.
SUSAN
Thank you.
MOSKOWITZ
Remind me your name?
SUSAN
Susan.
MOSKOWITZ
Right. I um. I spoke with the mom
this morning. I know you were
close.
Susan nods. Her eyes well up.
The employee that Moskowitz spoke with earlier watches over
their conversation. The employee looks protective.
Moskowitz softens.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Do you mind if we talk a bit?
SUSAN
Ok. I um.
She looks towards the other employee. They give her an
assuring smile.
MOSKOWITZ
You holding up alright?
Susan shrugs.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
I tried getting a hold of you
earlier.
He shows her the number that Ursula had written down for him.
SUSAN
I didn’t answer because I didn’t
know who it was.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.74.
74.
Susan has trouble holding eye contact.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Can you tell me about the last time
you saw Nicole.
SUSAN
Um.
She seems too nervous to talk.
MOSKOWITZ
Did you drop her off at work? In
the Toyota there.
She nods.
SUSAN
We went for lunch.
He nods.
MOSKOWITZ
There’s a second hand shop there.
She doesn’t say anything.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
By the soup place.
She nods.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
You go in there?
She nods.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
You buy anything?
SUSAN
No.
MOSKOWITZ
Susan.
SUSAN
What?
MOSKOWITZ
You buy anything?
She shakes her head.75.
75.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Sweater. With a little monster guy
on it.
SUSAN
Nicole bought a sweater.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.
SUSAN
She thought it was funny. It fit
too big on her.
MOSKOWITZ
That why she gave it away?
Susan shrugs.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
The name Cassandra Olstein mean
anything to you?
SUSAN
The teacher?
MOSKOWITZ
You see her after you went to the
second hand shop there?
SUSAN
See her? I don’t think anyone’s
seen her in.
Susan is distracted by a man who sleeps in a chair by the
window.
He has accidentally kicked over a bottle of mouthwash that he
kept under his chair. It pools onto the carpet.
Susan rushes over to the man. She stands up the mouthwash.
She walks back to Moskowitz.
SUSAN (CONT'D)
Sorry.
MOSKOWITZ
That’s alright.
Susan uses hand sanitizer.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
When was the last time you saw her?76.
76.
SUSAN
Sorry?
MOSKOWITZ
Cassandra Olstein.
Susan shrugs.
SUSAN
I never met her.
MOSKOWITZ
You knew she was a teacher though?
SUSAN
Everyone was looking for her.
Moskowitz nods.
MOSKOWITZ
Do you know if Nicole knew her or
was in contact with her at all?
Susan shakes her head.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
She didn’t know her through work at
all?
Susan shrugs.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Did Nicole ever come in contact
with any newborns at work?
Susan looks confused.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Did she ever mention anything like
that?
SUSAN
No.
He watches her anger subside.
MOSKOWITZ
Can I ask about the cut there, on
your forehead?
SUSAN
I um. I hit it against the car
door. When I was opening it.77.
77.
MOSKOWITZ
How did Nicole die, Susan?
Susan’s eyes well up and she looks away from him. She dabs
her tears with the sleeve of her hoodie.
SUSAN
Sorry. I. I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
Is there anyone who you think I.
He waits for her to stop crying.
The other employee still watches them.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Is there anyone who you think would
have wanted to hurt her?
She shrugs again.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Susan.
The other employee comes over.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Was there anyone that would have
had a reason to hurt her, Susan?
She is crying.
LIBRARY EMPLOYEE
Susan, are you okay?
She nods but is crying more now.
LIBRARY EMPLOYEE (CONT'D)
Sorry sir. Maybe. We could just
give her a moment.
MOSKOWITZ
Yah.
EXT. LIBRARY PARKING LOT - DAY
Moskowitz sits in his car.
He presses buttons on his cell phone.
He scrolls through the different ring tones.78.
78.
Chimes, Stargaze, Twinkle.
He settles on By The Seaside. It is relaxing and peaceful.
The phone rings. He answers it.
MOSKOWITZ
Hullo?
MICHELLE
Um. Is this. Detective Moskowitz.
MOSKOWITZ
Yah. Go ahead.
MICHELLE
Hi. Detective. This is um.
Michelle.
MOSKOWITZ
Michelle. The sister?
MICHELLE
Um. Yes?
MOSKOWITZ
Right. Michelle. I almost missed
your call there. I don’t know if
the ringer is turned on this thing
or what.
MICHELLE
Oh. Well. I’m in town here. Did
you? Were you still able to meet?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes. We can. Is um. When’s good?
MICHELLE
I’m free now. If that works?
MOSKOWITZ
Right. Ok. Sure.
INT. WATER STREET DINER - DAY
Moskowitz sits across from Michelle. They each have a cup of
coffee.
He is taken by how identical she looks to Cassandra.
She can see he looks agitated and frustrated.79.
79.
MICHELLE
Are you. Okay?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah. I’m good. You?
MICHELLE
I mean. Sure. Yeah.
MOSKOWITZ
You went to see her?
MICHELLE
Yes.
MOSKOWITZ
How’s the coffee?
MICHELLE
It’s. Fine.
MOSKOWITZ
You the younger or older?
MICHELLE
Older. Technically. But. We’re
twins.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.
MICHELLE
Sorry. I didn’t mean that to sound
condescending.
He doesn’t seem bothered.
MOSKOWITZ
You guys grow up here?
MICHELLE
No. She came for work.
MOSKOWITZ
At the school?
MICHELLE
Yeah.
MOSKOWITZ
What was the name of the school
again?80.
80.
MICHELLE
Beth Sheol.
Moskowitz nods.
MOSKOWITZ
How was it for her?
MICHELLE
I think it was good. I mean. Yeah.
It was good for her.
MOSKOWITZ
Good.
MICHELLE
I think she was a bit isolated.
But.
MOSKOWITZ
How so?
MICHELLE
It’s a small town. So.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.
MICHELLE
But I think she was getting used to
it.
MOSKOWITZ
How long was she here?
MICHELLE
A few years. Maybe five or six
years.
MOSKOWITZ
What was she like?
MICHELLE
Cassie?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah.
MICHELLE
She was quiet.
He nods.81.
81.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
She liked shopping and watching TV.
I don’t mean that in like a trite
way. She just. Did.
MOSKOWITZ
Was she ever married?
MICHELLE
No.
MOSKOWITZ
Boyfriend?
Michelle shakes her head.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
How come?
MICHELLE
She had a hard time meeting people.
He nods.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
She really kept to herself a lot.
MOSKOWITZ
I understood she had a child.
MICHELLE
A child?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah.
MICHELLE
She didn’t have a child. Detective.
MOSKOWITZ
If she did?
MICHELLE
Well she didn’t.
Moskowitz studies her anger.
MOSKOWITZ
If she ever did. Do you have any
inclination of who the father could
be?
MICHELLE
No.82.
82.
He nods.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
Who said anything about a baby?
MOSKOWITZ
She did.
Michelle looks disturbed.
MICHELLE
Well. I don’t really get that.
MOSKOWITZ
You two were in touch?
MICHELLE
We were.
MOSKOWITZ
Talked a lot?
MICHELLE
Every day. Mostly.
MOSKOWITZ
Mom and Dad?
MICHELLE
Mom lives in town. Dad passed.
MOSKOWITZ
Mine too.
She looks sympathetic to him.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
She just disappears one day or?
MICHELLE
I mean.
Michelle takes a moment and looks out the window.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
Yeah.
MOSKOWITZ
Do you remember the last time you
spoke?
MICHELLE
Yeah.83.
83.
MOSKOWITZ
Can you tell me about that?
They are quiet for some time. Michelle seems to be getting
her thoughts together.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Girl showed up dead in the river.
In the city.
Michelle doesn’t quite know what he means.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
I’m a city cop.
Michelle nods.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
She ever mention anyone named
Nicole? Nicole Stalinksi?
MICHELLE
I don’t think so? Maybe one of her
students?
They are quiet again. Moskowitz begins squeezing his fist.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
She didn’t say a word the entire
time I was there, Detective. It was
like. She didn’t even recognize me.
He nods.
MOSKOWITZ
When she left. Originally. You want
to tell me about that.
Michelle nods.
MICHELLE
It was um.
The waitress brings her a tuna sandwich with fries and a
massive plate of breakfast for Moskowitz.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
Around my wedding. Actually.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.
MICHELLE
In the city.84.
84.
MOSKOWITZ
Whenabouts?
MICHELLE
Um. About a year and a half ago.
He nods.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
My husband Saul. He. Um. He comes
from a bit of a religious
whole thing at the synagogue.
Which. You know it wouldn’t have
been my first choice. But. Yah.
Moskowitz’s mouth is full of food. He’s listening.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
During the reception. You know.
getting thrown into the air. And.
She becomes lost in thought.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
a crowd. She’s just. She’s very
shy. And after the wedding. They
background. So. You know we did the
There’s this photo of me and Saul
It’s easy for Cassie to get lost in
had to shut the synagogue down for
three weeks. It was a whole thing.
MOSKOWITZ
Why exactly?
MICHELLE
There was an issue with the
plumbing. Like. You know. I had a
series of dreams. I don’t know.
Sorry. I know I’m not making any
sense.
MOSKOWITZ
That’s alright. Did you want to
talk about the dreams? Or?
MICHELLE
I um. Do you really want to get
into it?
MOSKOWITZ
I mean.MICHELLE
time. But. I mean. Ok.
The waitress fills their coffees.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
was like. Relentless. We were
Whatever. You know. During my
flaky like. Dreamweaver or
MOSKOWITZ
That’s alright.
She seems frustrated by herself.
He gestures for her to continue.
I’ve been in therapy for a long
It wasn’t just a single dream. It
trying to get pregnant. Saul and I.
After the wedding. And. You know. I
guess we’re getting into it. But.
cycle. Or when it was coming. Like
when we knew I wasn’t pregnant.
Listen. Detective. I’m not some
whatever. Really. It was like.
These dreams are more distinct than
my actual memory. Do you know what
I mean? It’s like. Whatever. Sorry.
MICHELLE
Sorry.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
I wouldn’t talk about it if it
wasn’t. You know? But. So.
MOSKOWITZ
You can explain it how you want.
That’s fine. Everything is helpful.
MICHELLE
Ok. It was like. I would feel my
toenails scratch against the
pavement. In this way that just.
And I would float through for what
felt like so long. And. My
fingernails became so long and I
would go to people that I knew. And
I would decapitate them with my
hand. And then cut their stomachs
open. And pull out a fetus. And
then I’d bring the fetus to
basement of the synagogue. And I
put them in this same formation.
(MORE)
(MORE)
85.
85.86.
86.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
In different corners of the room.
But. Do you know the shul?
MOSKOWITZ
Oh. No. I don’t.
MICHELLE
Do you know what a mikveh is?
MOSKOWITZ
It’s um. Like a ritual bath.
She nods.
MICHELLE
There was one that was put in the
synagogue like. You know. A hundred
years ago. Or whatever. You know.
The Rabbi has a whole schpeel about
it. But. They’d boarded it up. It
just. It wasn’t that religious of a
shul. That people used it. But over
the years it rotted. Or something
leaked. And. I don’t know. They had
to excavate it. It was a whole
thing. No one was happy.
Moskowitz still listens.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
That started after the wedding.
MOSKOWITZ
They fixed it?
MICHELLE
They did.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.
MICHELLE
I’m talking in circles a bit here.
But. You know that picture I was
talking about. With me and Saul?
MOSKOWITZ
Yeah.
MICHELLE
Just after that. There was this
like. Stench. This. You have no
idea. What it was. Detective. And
it just.
(MORE)
(MORE)He nods.
don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
Everyone started clearing out of
the room. Like. I was so scared
someone was going to get trampled.
MICHELLE (CONT'D)
The wedding videographer. Saul’s
cousin Igor. I got the footage from
him. I searched through every god
damn second on that thing. And. You
can look at it if you want. But. I
What were you looking for?
MICHELLE
Pardon?
MOSKOWITZ
In the video.
MICHELLE
What was I looking for?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
MICHELLE
I was looking for my sister.
Moskowitz looks fearful. He is still.
Michelle laughs.
87.
87.
MOSKOWITZ
What?
MICHELLE
It’s easy to scare yourself into
think up all kinds of crazy
supernatural shit. You know?
Moskowitz smiles.
MOSKOWITZ
Yeah.
MICHELLE
Anyway.88.
88.
MOSKOWITZ
She um. The cop there. Usnavy. You
know him?
MICHELLE
Yeah.
MOSKOWITZ
He told me they’ll keep her there.
For now. So.
Michelle nods.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION - RECEPTION
Moskowitz leans on the counter and speaks to Wallace.
MOSKOWITZ
What’d you figure out?
Wallace looks very angry.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Is Usnavy in?
Wallace stare at him.
Moskowitz gives him a big smile.
WALLACE
I heard you had a little run in
with Alvin.
MOSKOWITZ
Alvin eh?
Wallace glares at him.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
You got something to say?
Usnavy comes out.
USNAVY
Detective.
MOSKOWITZ
Been trying to get a hold of you.
USNAVY
Sorry?89.
89.
MOSKOWITZ
Man. I’m hauling ass around town
trying to figure this shit out and
meanwhile this little fuck is too
busy chatting with his mom on the
phone. You figuring out this baby
thing or not?
USNAVY
I thought you had it.
MOSKOWITZ
What the fuck?
USNAVY
I told you we were tied up
Detective.
MOSKOWITZ
What the fuck have you been doing
then?
USNAVY
Detective. We’ve got. We’re.
Moskowitz looks at Wallace.
MOSKOWITZ
You mother fucker.
Wallace winks at him.
Moskowitz pounces at him. He pounds the phone off the desk
and tries to swing at him.
More cops appear and hold Moskowitz back. He tries to fight
them off.
EXT. RIVERSIDE - ENCAMPMENT - DAY
Moskowitz walks towards the encampment.
He looks at the rain as it hits the river and the tents like
a marching drum.
There is a man sitting on a tree stump.
MOSKOWITZ
Hey man.
The man moves his head towards Moskowitz.90.
90.
When Moskowitz shows him the picture of Nicole he sees that
the man has no eyes.
The man reaches towards the photo. He looks at it.
Moskowitz watches him.
He passes the photo back.
There is a rustling behind them.
Moskowitz looks towards the man’s tent. He crouches over and
can see it is full of ripped up newspapers like shavings from
a hamster cage
There is a dog who awakes and reaches its head towards
Moskowitz.
It comes out of the tent and walks in a circle around
Moskowitz.
Moskowitz leaves the area without saying anything to the dog
or the blind man.
The rain becomes more heavy as Moskowitz surveys each tent.
His feet sink into the mud. He approaches a tent.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Open up. Police.
A man opens the zipper. He is bald on the top of his head and
has long red hair that goes past his chest. He is missing his
front teeth.
CAMPER
Good day!
Moskowitz shows him the photo of Nicole.
MOSKOWITZ
You recognize this woman here?
CAMPER
Hold on.
He goes back to the tent.
CAMPER (CONT'D)
I can’t see anything without my
glasses here. Hold on.
He rummages through his belongings.91.
91.
CAMPER (CONT'D)
Honey. Did you step on my fuckin
glasses?
HONEY
Shut up.
CAMPER
You a fuckin cop man?
MOSKOWITZ
Yeah.
CAMPER
I don’t hate cops. Most guys do
though eh? Most fuckin guys do.
The camper comes back with his glasses he looks at the photo.
CAMPER (CONT'D)
Yeah. You know what. I know this
woman. Honey. You know this woman
right?
He shows her the photo. She doesn’t answer.
CAMPER (CONT'D)
She used to come around and give
out noodles and bars and that kind
of shit. You know? Like this shit.
He shows Moskowitz the wrapper of an energy bar.
CAMPER (CONT'D)
These fuckin bars man. You know?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah. When you see her last?
CAMPER
Fuck man. I don’t know. Honey?
When’d we last see her?
HONEY
I don’t fucking know. Fucking I
don’t know. Stop fucking asking me.
The man smiles.
Moskowitz takes the photo back and goes towards the next
tent.
There is circle of broken stain glass surrounding it like a
moat.92.
92.
There are melted church organ drawbars beside the stained
glass. They are covered in pigeon shit.
The tent door is open and flaps in the wind.
Moskowitz walks towards it. He moves his jacket so that his
gun is more accessible.
MOSKOWITZ
Police.
Inside of the tent is a naked man who is crouched like a
gargoyle. He wears a sombrero beneath a bicycle helmet and
holds a pigeon’s ass to his mouth.
He puts a barbecue lighters to the pigeon’s beak. The pigeon
flaps wildly, narrowly escaping the man’s grip.
Beyond the tent a man and a woman sleep face first. Their
pants are around their ankles.
A barefoot man repeatedly lifts a wheelchair over his head
and throws it against a tree. He howls. He lifts his foot.
There is a needle hanging from it.
There is a tent that is much closer to the water. There are
rocks piled in a circle around the edge of it.
There is a pit dug beside it. The pit is full of melted
plastics, pylons and tires.
Moskowitz goes towards the tent.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Hey.
He waits for an answer. But there is none.
There is a flickering light inside of the tent.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Hey. Come on out. Police.
The flickering quickens.
Moskowitz stops moving.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Let’s come out. Come on.
The silhouette from inside the tent stops. It looks towards
him.
He sees the shape of the silhouette change.93.
93.
He sees the shape of a baby and hears a massive infantile
wail.
Moskowitz unclips his revolver.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Open the fucking tent.
He walks towards the tent.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Mother fucker. Open it.
The door slowly unzips. His hand is on his gun.
A cloud of mace bursts towards him.
Moskowitz yells.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
I’ll shoot you dead motherfucker.
He tries to get up but he’s too disoriented. A piece of metal
slams into his forehead.
He falls backward into the mud and the infant howls.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Fuck.
He watches a blurred silhouette run. The baby’s howl becomes
more distant.
He stumbles towards the sound of the infant.
INT. WOODS - NIGHT
He is still blinded by the mase and the blood that trickles
from where he was hit with the metal.
He keeps moving until he is surrounded by silence and
blackness.
He listens as closely as he can. He wipes the blood from his
forehead. He waits to hear the infant again.
He holds his gun in front of him. He walks towards the
infant’s scream.
There is a figure. Their fingers seem long in the shadows.
They look very tall in the trees.94.
94.
MOSKOWITZ
Put it the fuck down. I will shoot
you mother fucker.
The figure creeps downward. They are merely a silhouette from
Moskowitz’s point of view.
FIGURE
She sa said. She said. That.
MOSKOWITZ
I will shoot your fucking head man.
FIGURE
She sai said that. Some one would
come. To pro. To pro tect him.
MOSKOWITZ
Man. You put it down. Slowly.
Fucker. Do it.
FIGURE
Are you going to. Pro. Pro te. Te.
Tect. Him?
MOSKOWITZ
I’m a fuckin cop.
The figure is silent.
FIGURE
She tru trusted me.
MOSKOWITZ
Who trusted you?
The figure places the baby in the mud.
FIGURE
Pa please. She tru trusted me. And
I ho hope. That you are. Pa please
don’t. Don’t hurt hi him.
The figure runs through the woods.
Moskowitz walks towards the infant. He hold it under his
jacket.
He looks at the infant, to make sure it is still breathing.
He cradles the baby.
His vision is still a blur.
The baby screams.95.
95.
EXT. RIVERSIDE - ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT
He walks through the encampment and holds the gun ahead of
himself, towards anyone who looks at him.
MOSKOWITZ
What mother fucker?
He is careful that no one is able to get near him. He
stumbles through, cradling the baby.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Alright, buddy. You’re okay. You’re
okay. Take it easy, we’re okay.
The infant screams in loud bursts.
EXT. WATER STREET - DAY
Moskowitz goes into his car.
He holds the baby in his arm and drives down the road.
He speeds down the road, unable to see.
The baby screams.
He drives through a red light and is t-boned by another
vehicle. He swerves and smashes into a street light.
The hood of the car is smashed inward, the headlight spread
across the road.
The car is blocking both lanes.
Steam hovers from the engine. He opens the door. The baby is
silent.
The rain has calmed into myst.
He gets out of the car and limps upward. He still holds the
baby.
It lets out a howling wail.
DRIVER
What the fuck! What the fuck man!
MOSKOWITZ
Man, where is the fucking police
station?96.
96.
DRIVER
Asshole. Excuse me?
MOSKOWITZ
Where is the fucking police
station?
The drive is baffled by the question.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
You need me to say it again?
Moskowitz shows him his badge.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Motherfucker where is it?
DRIVER
Straight down until the end of the
road. Take a left at Main.
Moskowitz limps along the road. He holds the baby.
MOSKOWITZ
Alright buddy. Take it easy. We’re
okay. We’re okay buddy.
INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT
Moskowitz enters with the screaming child.
Wallace looks shocked.
MOSKOWITZ
Alright, stay calm. You’re okay.
Man, can you get some milk or
something? Can you send someone?
Wallace is frozen in place.
Another one of the Officers comes into the room to see what
the screaming is.
The Officer takes the baby away from Moskowitz and cradles
it.
OFFICER
Ok, you’re good. I got you. You’re
good.
The officer takes the baby and sits with it. He takes his
phone. It is as if he is on auto pilot.97.
97.
OFFICER (CONT'D)
Honey. Hi. Don’t panic ok, but I’m
gonna need your help in something
here. We got a baby here at the
station. I want you to stop at the
drug store. Bring what you’d need
to keep a baby safe. Like when Lucy
was born. Yup. Wipes, blanket,
formula. Yup. Ok sweetie. We’re
okay. Love you too.
When he hangs up the phone Moskowitz is gone.
EXT. WATER STREET - NIGHT
Moskowitz goes to his car.
He calls a tow truck and they deal with it.
EXT. WATER STREET - NIGHT
Susan slowly cruises water street.
She looks at every face on the street.
INT. SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Susan tries to sleep. She looks at pictures of Nicole on her
phone.
1 1
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT - FLASHBACK
Susan drives and Nicole sits in the passenger seat.
They are both silhouetted in darkness until Nicole turns on
the overhead light.
Nicole looks more youthful than Susan. Her hair is black and
curls in ringlets. Her eyes are black and the bags under her
eyes look unnatural. Her eyebrows are plucked thin. They look
like roasted matchsticks.
Nicole takes a dime bag from the glove compartment.
Susan looks over.
NICOLE
I’ll just have a little bit, ok?98.
98.
SUSAN
Can you just sit still? Please.
Nicole doesn’t listen. She pours some of the powder onto hand
and inhales it.
NICOLE
See? Just a little tiny bit. Don’t
worry.
Susan looks frustrated by her.
2 2
EXT. WOODS - NIGHT
Nicole and Susan trudge along each carry the end of a long
canvas bag.
Nicole wears an oversized jacket and knee high ugg boots.
They are wet and covered in mud.
She slips and drops her end of the bag. Her hands and jeans
are covered in mud.
NICOLE
Ow.
Fuck, Nicole.
SUSAN
NICOLE
Sorry.
SUSAN
Why are you wearing those boots
again.
NICOLE
I forgot.
Nicole tries to get up but slips again, like a doe on ice.
Susan looks frustrated.
She puts down her end of the bag. She goes to Nicole and
helps her up.
Nicole smiles, guilty like.
They drop the bag.99.
99.
INT. SEWAGE OULET - NIGHT
They go into the sewage outlet.
NICOLE
I think she’s hurt.
SUSAN
She’s fine.
NICOLE
But. Um. Susan?
SUSAN
What?
NICOLE
I’m scared.
SUSAN
Nicole. Not now.
NICOLE
Can we just let her go for a little
bit? Because she’s been here for a
long time right? And maybe we could
just let her walk around? Right?
Susan doesn’t respond.
The baby starts crying.
NICOLE (CONT'D)
Do you know what I mean?
SUSAN
I’m not having this conversation.
NICOLE
Please?
SUSAN
Nicole. Stop.
NICOLE
I’m just going to let her go a
little bit okay.
The baby is screaming.
Nicole tries to calm the infant. But it continues to scream.
SUSAN
Nicole.100.
100.
NICOLE
Just let her go. Let go Susan. It’s
okay. Shh. Shh. Shh. It’s okay.
NICOLE (CONT'D)
It’s okay. You’re okay. You’re
okay.
SUSAN
Give it back to her.
NICOLE
Just for a little bit okay?
SUSAN
Nicole.
NICOLE
Susan. You’re hurting her. Stop.
Stop it!
Something metal hits.
4 4
EXT. SEAGE OUTLET - DAY
The morning sun cuts through the trees and is aimed towards
the dirt. Birds chirp.
Susan stumbles out of the woods.
There is a gash along her eyebrow, her hair is thick with
blood. She leans on the car and dry heaves.
After she gets her bearings she gets into the car and speeds
off.
INT. SUSAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Susan stills looks at the cell phone screen.101.
101.
DAY III
INT. MOTEL - ROOM - DAY
Moskowitz wakes up on the floor.
He feels like a cinder block, his eyes are swollen and almost
glued shut.
INT. MOTEL - BATHROOM - DAY
He is damn sore and can hardly piss.
He showers. He combs what is left of his hair.
INT. MOTEL - LOBBY - DAY
Julie smiles.
JULIE
Morning!
MOSKOWITZ
Morning there.
He smiles and nods at her.
She looks concerned how by haggard he looks.
JULIE
Um. Are you okay?
MOSKOWITZ
It’s nothing.
JULIE
Oh. Ok. Um. Did you end up getting
a new phone?
MOSKOWITZ
I did. Thank you.
JULIE
Is the. Um. Investigation going
good?
This makes him smile.
MOSKOWITZ
It is.102.
102.
JULIE
Good! Well. I hope you catch them!
MOSKOWITZ
Thank you.
INT. MOTEL - BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY
The moment he walks in he sees two police cars from the
sheriff’s department in the parking lot.
The officers exit their vehicles and enter the lobby.
MOSKOWITZ
Well. Fuck.
He takes a styrofoam cup and starts to pour his coffee.
OFFICER
Detective Moskowitz.
MOSKOWITZ
Officer one.
He nods.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Officer two.
They look at one another.
OFFICER
Ask you to come to the station.
MOSKOWITZ
Uh huh.
OFFICER
Tried reaching you by phone.
MOSKOWITZ
Right.
He looks longingly at the breakfast spread and sighs. He puts
a lid onto his coffee and follows them back out the lobby.
He waves at Julie on the way out.
JULIE
Have a good day!
MOSKOWITZ
You too!103.
103.
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
Moskowitz’s car is sandwiched between the two police
vehicles.
They flash their sirens as they escort him back to town.
INT. POLICE STATION - SHERIFF HEATHER’S OFFICE - DAY
Moskowitz sits across from SHERIFF HEATHER. She wears a scowl
and a large cowboy hat. She has heavy crow’s feet along her
eyes and sips a coffee.
SHERIFF HEATHER
Detective.
MOSKOWITZ
Sheriff.
SHERIFF HEATHER
Tell me something.
MOSKOWITZ
Uh huh.
SHERIFF HEATHER
Why exactly did you get sent up
here?
MOSKOWITZ
Work a case.
SHERIFF HEATHER
To work a case.
She nods.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
Nicole Stalinski.
MOSKOWITZ
Uh huh.
SHERIFF HEATHER
And how’s that coming?
He makes a vague and dubious gesture.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
Right.
He slumps in his chair.104.
104.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
This station. You know what?
MOSKOWITZ
What?
SHERIFF HEATHER
Let’s talk about something.
MOSKOWITZ
Ok.
SHERIFF HEATHER
You got a partner?
MOSKOWITZ
No.
SHERIFF HEATHER
Way I understand it. Detective
Moskowitz. There isn’t a single
fuckin guy on the force that’s
willing to partner with you.
He doesn’t say anything.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
You can imagine I’m getting pretty
fuckin sick of the city
department’s penchant to use my
town as a dumping ground as a
fucking trisorter. But Detective. I
can see from a mile away what kind
of fuckin cop you are.
His temper is building.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
Heard you were damn close in
getting your ass canned, that
right?
He looks toward the window.
MOSKOWITZ
I gone through the recourse.
SHERIFF HEATHER
You gone through the recourse?
MOSKOWITZ
Uh huh.
She smiles warmly.105.
105.
SHERIFF HEATHER
And I take it this is your reward
huh?
He shrugs.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
Getting sent up to fuckville here
with us hicks?
Her smile is gone. It was a rouse.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
We had you in here a couple nights
ago to talk to Cassandra Olstein.
That right?
MOSKOWITZ
Uh huh.
SHERIFF HEATHER
She’s been missing for some damn
time.
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
SHERIFF HEATHER
You got any school teachers in the
city there that one day go on and
disappear from thin air?
MOSKOWITZ
Might.
SHERIFF HEATHER
She comes back one day. ID’s your
vic. Pretty kind of my station to
put you in touch with her. Wouldn’t
you say?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
SHERIFF HEATHER
She told you she lost her child.
She can see his anger.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
And then the big city hero came and
saved the day. That right?
He doesn’t answer. His temper builds.106.
106.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
Show up here with a fuckin baby
huh?
She look towards the window. At the river and the encampment.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
You think I’m running some kind of
roadside daycare here?
He doesn’t answer.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
And Detective, if I may ask, how
exactly did you determine that
child belonged to Cassandra
Olstein?
MOSKOWITZ
Sheriff. With all due respect.
SHERIFF HEATHER
Spare me. Detective. The thought of
a baby living in that encampment
makes me sick to my fucking stomach
Detective. I assume we have that
much in common. But my questions
remains. How exactly did you
determine whose baby that was?
He doesn’t say anything.
She walks towards the window.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
I’ve been sitting in this chair
since all that shit was nothing but
fuckin dirt and grass. I’ve seen
all of this shit from day one. And
I’ll tell you something. You’ve got
two kinds of motherfuckers out
there. Junkies. And psychopaths.
They look out at the tent encampment through the window.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
The last fucking thing I’m going to
do. Detective. Is send that baby
back out there. But what I am
asking for, from you, Detective, is
some evidence that this infant
belongs to our teacher woman there.
Alright?He nods.
He nods.
He nods.
He nods.
107.
107.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
Let me tell you something
Detective. Because I’d like to
level with you.
MOSKOWITZ
Yah.
SHERIFF HEATHER
Good. Now. Detective. I have not
lost sight of what it means to find
justice for your vic. You
understand that?
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
If you knew the amount of shit we
deal with on a daily basis here.
Detective. You’ve got no fucking
idea what we deal with here.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
What I want more than anything.
What this town needs. Is to find
the head of the snake here and when
I do, I hope to god I am the one
that severs its fucking spine from
its neck.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
So. For now, this is what I’m going
to do. Are you listening?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
SHERIFF HEATHER
I’m going to keep that woman and
that baby in my custody here, for
as long as I can. And I’m going to
assume that that baby belongs to
her.
(MORE)
(MORE)108.
108.
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
SHERIFF HEATHER (CONT'D)
Because even if it doesn’t, and
lest we forget she is a clearly
facing some mental illness that’s
as for-fucking-midable as they
come, I would still rather that
baby was in here with my people
then out in that god forsaken
fucking hell. Do you agree or
disagree with my decision?
MOSKOWITZ
Agree.
SHERIFF HEATHER
Great. We clear then, Detective?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes.
SHERIFF HEATHER
So work your murder and get the
fuck out of my town.
INT. SUSAN'S APARTMENT - DAY
Susan stands at the window. She looks off into the lot.
She peels slices of orange and scans the horizon.
She listens to the audiobook.
EXT. POLICE STATION - PARKING LOT - DAY
MOskowitz sits in his car. His blood boils.
He punches the steering wheel.
Two cops look at him as they walk towards their car.
He looks at his phone.
There is a text message that reads -- did you talk to Vlad?
The number is unknown.
He types back -- who is Vlad?
The response arrives quickly -- Vlad adelman
Another message -- nicole’s ex109.
109.
Moskowitz looks at the number. He digs through his pockets
and finds the floral paper that Ursula had written down for
him.
The numbers match. Susan is texting him.
Susan sends a series of texts
-- he was obsessed with her
-- went to her house constantly
-- stalker
-- I told her to stop talking to him
-- he used to do stuff to her
-- broke up two years ago
-- but still obsessed
Moskowitz waits until the messages stop. He types -- address?
Susan -- BLACKFOOT INN CASINO
A picture arrives. It is of a Vlad and Nicole standing in a
snowbank.
Moskowitz revs the engine and speeds out of the lot.
EXT. POLICE STATION - DAY
Susan parks in the lot.
She looks behind herself in both directions as she rushes
into the police station.
EXT. BLACKFOOT INN CASINO - DAY
Moskowitz turns off of the highway and drives into the casino
parking lot.
INT. BLACKFOOT INN CASINO - DAY
Moskowitz sits at the bar with a ginger ale.
Light from the machines burst intermittently.
The ceiling above him is mirrored. He watches the patrons on
the floor.110.
110.
A man in a cowboy hat sits laughs hysterically while he
mindlessly launches quarters into a slot machine.
There are some men playing cards.
One of them wears a tracksuit that has a reflective graphic
of a woman’s silhouette.
Another man has his hair grown out in the back. He wears a
bolo tie that has a turquoise emblem in its center. He drinks
a neon green energy drink.
Moskowitz looks at the photo Susan sent him.
The man with the bolo tie is Vlad.
Moskowitz looks at a security guard who stands near the
table.
The security guard goes towards the front door. He surveys
the area.
The security guard notices Moskowitz.
Moskowitz gives him the middle finger.
The security guard says something into the surveillance radio
on his collar.
Vlad walks to the bar. The bartender serves him another
energy drink.
Moskowitz nods at him.
MOSKOWITZ
You Adelman?
Vlad wears a fowl expression.
Moskowitz shows him his badge.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Investigating the death of Nicole
Slavinksi.
Moskowitz looks back at the security guard. The security
guard looks unhappy.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
You want to take a seat?
VLAD
No.111.
111.
Moskowitz takes him by the collar and pulls him onto the bar
stool beside him.
They sip their drinks.
MOSKOWITZ
You know who killed her?
VLAD
No.
MOSKOWITZ
Who does?
VLAD
I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
How did she die?
VLAD
I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
How did she die?
VLAD
I don’t know. Man.
MOSKOWITZ
What’s the librarian hate you for?
VLAD
I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
What about the baby?
VLAD
What baby?
Moskowitz smacks the energy drink off the bar. It hits the
ground and liquid pools onto the tile.
MOSKOWITZ
Was there a fuckin baby or not man?
VLAD
Motherfucker you think I give a
fuck that you’re a cop?
Moskowitz slams Vlad’s head towards a frame on the wall. The
frame cracks. Vlad holds his head. He looks days.112.
112.
The bartender moves to the opposite end of the bar. He looks
towards the security guards, they don’t seem sure what to do.
MOSKOWITZ
Did you kill her?
VLAD
Fuck you.
Moskowitz sighs.
They sit quietly. Vlad touches his forehead. Moskowitz sips
his ginger ale.
MOSKOWITZ
When did you see her last?
VLAD
We talked on the phone.
MOSKOWITZ
When?
VLAD
Man fuckin book me or fuck off.
Moskowitz takes Vlad by the ear. He drags him away from the
bar.
VLAD (CONT'D)
Fuck. Ow. What the fuck!
Two security guards move towards them.
Moskowitz moves his jacket, revealing his gun.
MOSKOWITZ
You fuck off.
The security guards stop. Moskowitz takes Vlad outside.
EXT. CASINO - PARKING LOT - HIGHWAY - DAY
Moskowitz drags Vlad out of the casino by his ear.
MOSKOWITZ
Who killed her?
Vlad doesn’t answer.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
What’d she say on the phone.113.
113.
VLAD
Fuck. Off!
Moskowitz walks Vlad to the highway.
MOSKOWITZ
What the fuck was she doing with
the baby?
VLAD
What fucking baby!?
MOSKOWITZ
Mother fucker. Do not fuck with me.
A semi-truck approaches from up the highway.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
She’s dead mother fucker. You did
it or not. That’s what it is. Do
you think I give a fuck about you
man? You think I give a flying
fuck?
The semi-truck is very close now. Vlad screams.
As the truck passes them Moskowitz shoots a round next to
Vlad’s ear and tosses him into the grass.
Vlad holds his head and screams in terror. Eventually Vlad
calms down.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Did you love her?
Vlad looks at him.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Did you love her man?
VLAD
Yes.
Do you still?
MOSKOWITZ
VLAD
Fuck off.
MOSKOWITZ
Did you love or not mother fucker?
VLAD
Yes. I fucking did. Man. Fuck.114.
114.
MOSKOWITZ
Did you kill her?
VLAD
You suggest that again and I’ll
fucking kill you man. I will
fucking do it.
MOSKOWITZ
Did you kill her.
Vlad screams in frustration.
VLAD
I didn’t fucking kill her.
Moskowitz nods.
MOSKOWITZ
How did she end up in the river?
VLAD
I don’t. Fucking. Know.
MOSKOWITZ
Were you with her when she died?
VLAD
No.
MOSKOWITZ
Who was she with?
VLAD
I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
Who was she with when she died?
VLAD
Man, fuck off.
MOSKOWITZ
Was she taking care of a baby?
VLAD
No.
MOSKOWITZ
Did she ever once mention a fucking
baby?115.
115.
VLAD
I don’t know. I don’t fucking know
anything about any fucking baby
man. Seriously. Fuck off.
Seriously.
MOSKOWITZ
Who do you think did it?
VLAD
She was at the chemical plant. Ok?
I followed her to the chemical
plant.
Moskowitz nods.
MOSKOWITZ
Alright get up.
Moskowitz helps him up. He handcuffs him.
VLAD
I didn’t fuckin do anything!
MOSKOWITZ
I know buddy. Come on. We’ll sort
this out.
INT. CAR - DAY
Moskowitz speeds down the highway.
Vlad sits in the passenger seat. He still wears handcuffs.
VLAD
What did she say about me?
MOSKOWITZ
Who?
VLAD
Susan.
MOSKOWITZ
The librarian?
VLAD
Yah.
MOSKOWITZ
What’d she say about you? That
you’re a mother fucker.116.
116.
VLAD
I followed her here.
MOSKOWITZ
Where?
VLAD
To where were going. The fuck you
think?
MOSKOWITZ
And?
VLAD
I lost her. But this is where she
went.
MOSKOWITZ
How’d you lose her?
Vlad scoffs at him.
VLAD
That the only gun you got?
Moskowitz looks at him.
MOSKOWITZ
What you following her for?
Vlad doesn’t answer at first. He begins to look sad.
VLAD
To find Nicole.
Moskowitz nods.
EXT. WOODS - DAY
The trees have grown into one another and there is no trail.
Vlad walks ahead of Moskowitz. He is still handcuffed. He
stumbles through.
MOSKOWITZ
The fuck are we going man?
Vlad doesn’t answer. He falls. Moskowitz picks him up and
pushes him forwards.117.
117.
EXT. CHEMICAL PLANT - DAY
The building is decrepit and the steel has rusted the edge
like it is being swallowed by the earth.
Moskowitz follows Vlad into the entrance.
INT. CHEMICAL PLANT - DAY
The rust has enveloped the concrete. The machinery looks
broken and phantom-like.
MOSKOWITZ
You here before?
VLAD
Yah.
MOSKOWITZ
The fuck we going man?
VLAD
I didn’t kill him man.
MOSKOWITZ
Kill who?
Vlad looks back at him.
VLAD
On the roof.
MOSKOWITZ
What fuckin roof?
Vlad takes a step backward and falls through the floor.
Moskowitz hears a crack. He rushes towards where Vlad fell.
Moskowitz shines his light downward. There is no reflection.
He cannot see where Vlad fell.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
HEY. ADELMAN. ADELMAN.
He hears footsteps from below. Vlad runs but Moskowitz cannot
see him.
The path ahead follows the direction that Vlad went. The
darkness is relentless.
Moskowitz moves carefully. He holds his gun in front of him.118.
118.
Moskowitz stops.
The moisture in the air is musky and humid and he begins to
hear running water.
There are two men ahead. They each hold a shotgun.
The men look as thought they are waiting for a signal from
somewhere past where he can see.
Moskowitz lines up his shot. He prowls towards the men.
An idiotically joyful tune emits from his pocket.
It’s the cell phone ringer.
By The Seaside.
Both of the men turn around.
Moskowitz shoots.
He hits one of them in the chest. He goes down.
The other guy shoots down the corridor towards Moskowitz.
Moskowitz moves along the wall and continues to try to land a
shot until he steps off of a plank and falls downward,
through the floor.
He hits the ground. He hears the water more clearly now. It
runs beneath him.
He limps over and follows along the tunnel.
He climbs the rafters until the sound of the water fades and
he hears gunfire again.
He sees into the warehouse. Through broken sprigs of rebar.
INT. CHEMICAL PLANT - WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
He sees that Vlad hides behind a ventilation system.
There are another two men that hide behind control boards
across from him.
Moskowitz aims at the men. Trying to see if he can get a good
shot but the chance is slim.
Moskowitz creeps towards one of the men. He takes a shot.
Blood and skull burst into the air and the man goes down.119.
119.
The other man shoots at Moskowitz. He has nothing to hide
behind.
Moskowitz continues to shoot at the other man until he is
dead as well.
Moskowitz points his gun at Vlad.
MOSKOWITZ
Easy mother fucker.
VLAD
Don’t kill me. Please.
MOSKOWITZ
They all dead?
VLAD
I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
The fuck are they?
VLAD
I don’t know. I think. I told you I
didn’t kill him. I just left him
there. I just left him on the roof.
They think I killed their guy. But
I didn’t. I thought he hurt Nicole.
But I don’t know anymore. And. He’s
just on the roof okay? I think he
can still breathe. I don’t know. I
don’t fucking know. Just don’t hurt
me.
MOSKOWITZ
Man.
Vlad is crying.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
I don’t know what the fuck you’re
talking about.
VLAD
I think. I think they followed us.
Be. Because. They think I killed
him. But. I thought he would know
where she was. But he didn’t know.
And then I didn’t know what to do
with him. So I just left him there.
On the roof.120.
120.
MOSKOWITZ
Who?
VLAD
Marcel Amelias.
MOSKOWITZ
Who the fuck is that?
VLAD
He’s just. A fuckin guy.
Moskowitz sees that Vlad is dumbfounded by something.
He turns to see an oversized dog kennel beneath a broken
window.
MOSKOWITZ
The fuck is this?
VLAD
I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
The fuck is it man?
VLAD
Fuckin dog cage what the fuck does
it look like?
MOSKOWITZ
Whose the fucker on the roof?
VLAD
I didn’t kill him.
MOSKOWITZ
Do you think I give two fucks about
that guy man? What the fuck is
going on? Fuck.
Vlad cries more. Snot and spits pour from his face.
VLAD
I didn’t kill him. I just left him
there. He wouldn’t tell me shit. I
thought they killed her. I thought
it was her. But. I don’t know. I
think it was. She left me man. She
fuckin left me and now she’s dead.
MOSKOWITZ
Man. Fucking. I don’t know what the
fuck you’re saying man.121.
121.
VLAD
I don’t give a fuck if I die here
man. I’ll die in a pool of my own
shit before I let these fuckers go.
I’m going to kill them all. I don’t
give a fuck. They want to follow
me? I’ll fuckin kill them all.
That’s what. I fuckin.
He breaks down in tears again.
VLAD (CONT'D)
I followed Susan here.
MOSKOWITZ
How’s that?
VLAD
She comes here. Every few nights. I
followed her.
MOSKOWITZ
For fucking what?
VLAD
I don’t know. I turned back. I
always turned back. But this is
where she was.
Moskowitz looks at the empty dog kennel.
He looks at the trash on the ground. The packaging says
Butcher & Deli.
MOSKOWITZ
The fuckin sandwich place.
Moskowitz kicks the trash.
Vlad looks confused.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
The fucking sedan at the sandwich
place.
VLAD
What?
Moskowitz takes his cell phone.
He looks at the call he missed.
He calls it back.122.
122.
MICHELLE
Um. Hello?
MOSKOWITZ
Moskowitz here.
MICHELLE
Detective?
MOSKOWITZ
Yah.
MICHELLE
You said she was safe.
MOSKOWITZ
Huh?
MICHELLE
You said they would keep her.
MOSKOWITZ
What are you saying?
MICHELLE
They sent her off. And now she’s
gone. Again.
MOSKOWITZ
Cassandra?
MICHELLE
She’s gone.
MOSKOWITZ
What?
MICHELLE
You tell me. Detective.
MOSKOWITZ
They cut her loose?
MICHELLE
They let her go.
MOSKOWITZ
What?
MICHELLE
I went back there and they sent her
out.123.
123.
MOSKOWITZ
Who did?
MICHELLE
The fucking cop. Fucking Usnavy.
Whatever the fuck his name is. You
said she would be okay there.
MOSKOWITZ
Jesus fuckin christ.
MICHELLE
They said some woman came and got
her.
MOSKOWITZ
What woman?
MICHELLE
I don’t know.
MOSKOWITZ
They didn’t say.
MICHELLE
No.
MOSKOWITZ
Fuck.
MICHELLE
You said she was safe.
MOSKOWITZ
For fuck’s sake. Listen. I’ll call
you back. Just. I’ll call you back
okay?
MICHELLE
You’re just a piece of shit like
the rest of them aren’t you?
MOSKOWITZ
Fuck that.
He hangs up and walks back towards the woods.
VLAD
Man.
Moskowitz doesn’t answer.124.
124.
VLAD (CONT'D)
Where the fuck are you going man?
What the fuck!
Vlad screams. He kneels on the ground in handcuffs.
Moskowitz is gone.
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
Moskowitz speeds the car faster than before.
EXT. WATER STREET - DAY
Moskowitz opens the trunk of the car.
He takes ammunition for his revolver and straps a second
pistol to his chest.
EXT. RIVERSIDE - ENCAMPMENT - DAY
He walks along the mud and the riverside and passes through
the encampment.
EXT. RIVERSIDE - WOODS - DAY
He goes through the trees and is surrounded by thick pine and
bark.
The canopy is dense above him, the branches are sharp and
harsh and he cannot see the sky.
EXT. WOODS - SEWAGE OUTLET - DAY
The canopy opens.
He goes towards the sewage outlet.
INT. SEWAGE TUNNEL - DAY
He holds his flashlight and his revolver ahead of him.
He walks towards the blackness and wades through the black
water.
Eventually he is surrounded by mossy concrete and the water
falls into a grate like a vacuum.125.
125.
He walks slowly. Weary of every brick and drip.
He follows another path towards a dead end.
He moves backwards.
He shines his flashlight throughout the tunnel.
He cannot see anything in any direction. His breathing
becomes heavier and heavier. The panic becomes more intense.
He desperately wipes the profuse muck and sweat from his brow
and eyes.
He takes deep breaths. But he cannot calm himself.
His heartbeat pushes against his ears. It moves rapidly and
beyond his control.
He puts his back against the wall and sits.
He is hyperventilating.
He closes his eyes.
He turns off the flashlight.
He tries to slow his breathing.
He takes his cell phone. The screen lights up. He dials a
number.
It rings a few times. And eventually a young girl picks up.
OLIVIA
Hello?
MOSKOWITZ
Hey. Holly?
OLIVIA
It’s Olivia.
MOSKOWITZ
Liv. Hi. It’s. Uncle Lou.
OLIVIA
Hi Uncle Lou!
MOSKOWITZ
How you holding up sweetheart?
OLIVIA
Um. Good.MOSKOWITZ
What are you up to?
OLIVIA
126.
126.
I dunno.
MOSKOWITZ
Just hanging around?
OLIVIA
Yup.
MOSKOWITZ
How’d that recital go?
OLIVIA
It was good.
MOSKOWITZ
Good.
OLIVIA
Yup. What are you doing?
MOSKOWITZ
Oh you know. Just working.
OLIVIA
That’s boring.
Now that his eyes have adjusted to the darkness he can see
sunlight peering ahead.
MOSKOWITZ
I guess so eh?
OLIVIA
Uh huh.
MOSKOWITZ
What’s your sister doing?
OLIVIA
I dunno. Coloring or something.
MOSKOWITZ
That’s good.
OLIVIA
Uh huh.
MOSKOWITZ
Is your Mom home?127.
127.
OLIVIA
Um. I think so.
MOSKOWITZ
You want to get her for me?
OLIVIA
MOM!
Moskowitz turns the flashlight back on. He seems much more
calm now. He looks around the tunnel.
OLIVIA (CONT'D)
MOOOM! MOM! It’s Uncle Lou. MOOMM?!
HOLLY
She’s in the shower.
OLIVIA
Um. Uncle Lou?
MOSKOWITZ
Yes Liv.
OLIVIA
Holly said she’s in the shower.
MOSKOWITZ
Ok. Well. Can you see this number
on the phone?
OLIVIA
I dunno.
MOSKOWITZ
Tell her I’ll call her back okay?
OLIVIA
Okay.
MOSKOWITZ
Okay.
OLIVIA
Are you coming for dinner this
weekend?
I’ll try okay?
MOSKOWITZ
OLIVIA
Please!
Moskowitz smiles.128.
128.
MOSKOWITZ
I’ll do my best.
OLIVIA
Ok. Bye Uncle Lou!
MOSKOWITZ
Bye.
He gets up. He walks towards the beam.
EXT. WOODS - DAY
Moskowitz exits a tunnel and falls downward, into a pit of
dirt and rocks.
As he lifts his head his gaze follows a trail of smoke that
emits into the trees.
He still holds his gun in front of him.
He walks towards the source of the smoke and sees a stone
altar.
There is a wolf hanging from the trees ahead. Its stomach has
been butchered and its blood empties downward onto Susan.
Her back is arched. She is naked and her skin is covered in
the wolf’s blood.
Behind her, there is Cassandra lying sprawled in the dirt.
She tries to get up but she is weak and injured.
MOSKOWITZ
MOTHER FUCK.
Susan’s eyes are glazed in blood.
She looks upward to Moskowitz.
There are bones scattered amongst the dirt.
There are feminine corpses tied to the tries. They are in
different states of decomposition.
They are decapitated and their abdomens have been severed.
There are cantelope sized skulls. Some of them are smashed
into the ground. Spinal chords and rib cages.
Susan holds a spear like antler.129.
129.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Put it the fuck down.
The infant lies on the altar.
It screams uncontrollably.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Motherfucker. Drop it. Drop the
fucking stick.
Susan holds the spear over the infant.
Moskowitz fires a warning shot but Susan does not flinch.
He shoots again.
The bullet grazes into her shoulder and she lets out a
neanderthal’s scream.
Her shoulder is thrown backward. She drops the spear.
Her shoulder has not completely severed from her body but her
arm hangs limp at her side.
She reaches towards the child. Moskowitz shoots again. He
does not hit her.
Susan runs into the trees.
Moskowitz rushes towards the infant. It screams furiously.
The wolf twitches and bleeds above them.
Moskowitz takes the infant.
He gives it to Cassandra. She blinks slowly and looks at the
infant. She cradles it.
Moskowitz rushes through the trees towards where Susan went.
He follows the trail of blood that Susan has left through the
woods.
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
As Susan exits the trees towards the highway a carrier truck
rips towards her.
She moves towards it in her fury, her arm hangs limp as she
challenges it.
The carrier truck does not honk or slow down until the metal
shatters her bones and slaps her onto the road.130.
130.
She stands immediately, the side of her ankle and her chest
de-gloved, the new injuries hidden by the wolf’s blood.
She takes merely a step before falling dead onto the
asphalt.
The truck driver gets out of the truck. He is panicking. He
is pacing in circles and repeating himself.
TRUCK DRIVER
What. What the fuck. Oh my god.
What the fuck. What the fuck.
Moskowitz rushes out of the woods.
He sees the truck. He sees Susan on the road.
He walks towards the truck driver. His badge is in his hand.
MOSKOWITZ
You’re good. You’re okay.
The truck driver does not comprehend what Moskowitz is
saying.
MOSKOWITZ (CONT'D)
Man. Relax. You’re fine. It’s fine.
TRUCK DRIVER
She came out of nowhere. Man. She
just. She just. She came out of
nowhere. I swear.
MOSKOWITZ
It’s fine. Buddy. You’re good.
Okay?
The truck driver is still too shocked to hear him. He kneels
over the tire and hyperventilates.
Moskowitz stands on the road. He catches his breath.
He looks at his phone. He’s missed a call.
He calls back.
JENNY
Hello?
MOSKOWITZ
Hey. Sis.
JENNY
Lou?131.
131.
MOSKOWITZ
Hey.
As he talks he makes his way back through the woods.
Until he finds Cassandra, nursing the infant.
JENNY
Where the fuck have you been? I’ve
been trying to call you. I called
you like ten times.
MOSKOWITZ
My phone got busted.
JENNY
Oh.
MOSKOWITZ
Sorry.
JENNY
Is this your new number?
MOSKOWITZ
Ya. I guess so.
JENNY
Where are you?
MOSKOWITZ
I’m uh. In the woods.
JENNY
You okay?
MOSKOWITZ
Yeah. You?
JENNY
Yeah. Good.
MOSKOWITZ
I think. I might be able to make it
over tomorrow after all. If. Um. I
think I can make it.
JENNY
Oh. Ok. Great.
MOSKOWITZ
Good.132.
132.
JENNY
You sure you’re okay?
MOSKOWITZ
Yup.
JENNY
Ok.
MOSKOWITZ
See you then alright?
JENNY
Ok. See you then.
INT. MOTEL - LOBBY - DAY
Moskowitz exits the elevator.
His bag is packed.
Going alright?
JULIE
MOSKOWITZ
Yup.
He hands her back the room key.
JULIE
Did you solve the case?
MOSKOWITZ
I guess so.
JULIE
Good work!
MOSKOWITZ
Thank you.
She smiles.
JULIE
You should make sure you have
something to eat before you go. It
can be a long drive on an empty
stomach you know?
He smiles.
MOSKOWITZ
Alright.133.
133.
JULIE
Yup!
INT. MOTEL - BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY
Moskowitz eats waffles and cereal.
Julie organizes the fruit display and the castle of cereal
boxes.
JULIE
Good?
He nods with a mouthful of food.
MOSKOWITZ
Good.
The coffee is low in the urn. She sets up another pot.134.
134.
EPILOGUE
INT. CITY DINER - DAY
Later.
Maybe she talks to Moskowitz and explains what the girls were
trying to do.
She says that they both had a rough background and they
wanted to go somewhere better.




















NEIGHBOURHOOD

EXT. ROAD - DAY
Shaky bits of purple form around fuzzy grey pixels.
CAMERA -- slow zoom out reveals that the pixels are furry
lint-ish grey toes.
The toes poke through ripped sneakers.
CAMERA -- unsteady, hand-held, follows the sneakers down the
road -- one is missing a shoelace, the other is knotted
tightly.
CAMERA swings to -- bright orange fills the frame.
CAMERA zooms out -- the orange is a flaccid torn pylon.
The sneakers scuff along the road and stop at a crumbly
asphalt edge -- the perimeter of a mucky rain filled pothole.
CAMERA turns back to the sneakers -- zoom out -- they belong
to --
A DUST BUNNY
He looks very Rabbit like -- but -- his fur is matted,
scraggly and knotted -- it’s made from lint, dirt and dust.
His whiskers are grown out, he wears baggy ripped black jeans
and an oversized black T-shirt.
This is ISAAC.
Isaac steps into the pothole and swishes through the water.
He pulls the pylon out and inspects it.
It isn’t perfect but it will do.
CUT TO:
EXT. CENTRAL LIBRARY - DAY
Rain pours.
The Central Library is a drab brutalist sandstone rectangle.
Its facade is decrepit and weather worn.
CAMERA -- zooms in on the automatic doorway.2.
2.
The automatic doors slide open -- an Earwig and a Sparrow
exit.
CAMERA down to Isaac -- he is half the size of the doorway.
He carries his pylon inside.
CUT TO:
INT. CENTRAL LIBRARY - DAY
CAMERA -- rack focus off book spines -- Isaac climbs up a
step ladder and gets onto his tip toes to reach a book off
the top shelf.
CUT TO:
A Gerbil drinks from a water fountain.
The rain still pours outside.
CUT TO:
A Frog in a turtle neck sorts through a stack of books at a
communal table.
A Moth in a soaking wet ragged trench coat dumps his drenched
overflowing tote bags onto the table.
The Frog awkwardly gets up and moves to another table.
CUT TO:
Isaac naps in a comfy chair by the window.
A book rests face down on his chest, the pylon sits on the
ground in front of him.
ANNOUNCMENT
-- THE CENTRAL LIBRARY WILL BE
CLOSING IN 10 MINUTES. PLEASE BRING
ALL MATERIALS TO THE CHECKOUT DESK
AND --
CUT TO:
Abstract red fractals flicker and flare intensely into the
lens -- this a library bard code scanner.
CUT TO:3.
3.
EXT. ALLEYWAY - NIGHT
Isaac, drenched, pushes his shoulder against the side of a
rusted dumpster, creaking it forward enough to reveal a blue
tarp.
We follow him past the tarp and into --
INT. THE NOOK - NIGHT
Isaac rings his soaking clothes into a metal pot.
He rustles through a plastic bag and finds a dry hoodie to
wear.
Isaac rips off a strip of duct tape and wraps it around the
pylon, reinforcing its original shape.
He jams a flashlight into the top of a pylon and flips it on.
The pylon glow illuminates the nook.
CAMERA pan past a flannel sleeping bag, a cardboard mattress.
Isaac chugs the last drops from a plastic water jug before
putting it outside to fill.
Isaac removes a section of concrete from the wall.
Behind it is a small bookshelf.
He sorts through the options -- an empty package of Gummy
Bears, a cell phone instruction manual and a paper menu from
a takeout restaurant --
He selects the cell phone instruction manual.
He lays down onto his cardboard mattress and reads under the
pylon light.
CUT TO:
EXT. ALLEYWAY - DAY
Sunshine flares into CAMERA.
A shirtless Isaac chugs fresh rainwater from his plastic jug.
A can flies from the dumpster and lands inside a shopping
cart.4.
4.
EDMUND, a lanky and malnourished Cockroach climbs down from
the dumpster.
Edmund uses his T-shirt to wipe sweat off his forehead.
Isaac offers him a sip from the water jug.
EDMUND
Nah, I’m good.
Isaac and Edmund quietly stand by the dumpster.
They are self conscious in front of the CAMERA.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
This movie gonna go to the
theaters?
Isaac lights up, and looks towards CAMERA.
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
It’s um -- we’re uh -- it’s a uh
documentary actually -- we’re -- um
-- we usually shoot commercials but
we thought -- um -- we uh -- we
wanted to do something to -- uh --
make a difference -- if uh -- that
makes sense.
Edmund shakes his head.
EDMUND
Make a difference?
Edmund takes a newspaper clipping from his pocket and hands
it to Isaac.
The clipping advertises a new low price on a used cargo van.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
Once I can afford that -- my
business is gonna explode. Triple
the cans in half the time. That’s
what I call making a difference.
Edmund fishes another couple of cans from the dumpster.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
I’m done taking handouts. From now
on, I’m not doing jack for anyone
but me.
Edmund slams another can into his cart.5.
5.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
You want things to change -- you
can’t rely on anyone but yourself.
Isaac reaches his hand out -- they knock fists.
CUT TO:
EXT. WEEDS - DAY
Bristles collect in Isaac’s lint as he pushes through
overgrown prickly bushes.
CAMERA follows Isaac towards a large piece of plywood that’s
wedged on top of a bush.
Isaac jumps up and tries to swing at the plywood.
It takes him a few tries but eventually he knocks it down.
CUT TO:
Isaac frisbees the plywood over a fence.
CAMERA follows him through an opening in the wire.
Isaac holds the fence for CAMERA to get through.
CAMERA OP (O.S.)
Thank you man.
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
Thanks.
CUT TO:
EXT. STREET - DAY
A RAT tries to get up off the sidewalk but is booted in the
stomach.
CAMERA zooms out -- two police, OFFICER SAM and OFFICER EARL
surround the Rat.
Officer Sam is an irate and stoic Squirrel.
Officer Earl is a proud hulking Pigeon.
GUS (O.S.)
For Christ’s sake, go easy on the
guy!6.
6.
CAMERA whips to GUS.
Gus is a Snail. He wears a cowboy hat and sits in an electric
shell wheelchair.
GUS (CONT'D)
(to Camera)
What you filming me for? Go on and
film them cops --
Gus points back to the police.
GUS (CONT'D)
-- Came chasing that there Rat from
around the block.
OFFICER EARL
Mind your business!
CAMERA zooms closer -- shaking, pixelated.
Officer Sam pushes the Rat’s head into the sidewalk.
GUS
Ya’ll got no right beating down a
fella like that!
Officer Earl handcuffs the Rat.
They toss him into the back of the cop car and speed off.
CAMERA to Isaac. He holds the plywood.
GUS (CONT'D)
(to Camera)
Ya’ll get that on tape?
Isaac looks to CAMERA.
GUS (CONT'D)
You from the news or is this some
kind of social justice thing?
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
We’re uh -- it’s a documentary
about -- um -- some of the uh --
people -- that --
ISAAC
It’s a movie about --
Isaac proudly points to himself.7.
7.
ISAAC (CONT'D)
-- Me.
GUS
Huh.
Gus looks at Isaac, the Interviewer, the Camera Op.
GUS (CONT'D)
Alright then Mr. Me, you think them
cops got the right in beating down
a man like that?
Isaac shrugs.
GUS (CONT'D)
I’ll tell you what -- I don’t care
what authority they think they got
all of the sudden. Ain’t no one’s
got the right imposing that kind of
violence.
Isaac reaches his fist out.
Gus looks uncertain as to what to do.
Gus hands Isaac his business card.
CAMERA zooms on -- GUS GIUSEPPE ATTORNEY AT LAW.
GUS (CONT'D)
You got to abide by what’s right.
You got to live by principal is
what I’m saying.
The bus fades in from the background.
GUS (CONT'D)
That footage might be worth
something, in the court of law.
The bus arrives.
The wheelchair ramp extends and lowers to the sidewalk.
GUS (CONT'D)
You need anything -- anything at
all --
Gus drives onto the ramp.
GUS (CONT'D)
-- you let me know.8.
8.
The bus door slams shut.
CUT TO:
EXT. STREET - DAY
Isaac drags the plywood past a series of decrepit abandoned
buildings.
The quality of the spray painted graphics varies from
building to building.
CUT TO:
COUNCILLOR ADAMS, a Bedbug in a tailored suit stands at a
makeshift podium.
A sparse and underwhelming crowd of Rodents and Bugs listen
to his speech --
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
You know -- growing up in this
neighbourhood --
He takes a moment to look around.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
-- garbage trucks didn’t come
around much --
He seems overwhelmed with emotion.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
-- there were no cops patrolling
our streets looking out for us.
This elicits a slight response from the crowd.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
All my life I spent thinking
-- someone’s got to do something
about that.
CAMERA scans through the crowd.
Cockroaches, Lice, Silverfish --
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
But who was that gonna be? Nobody
thought some Bedbug from river
street could make a difference now
did they?9.
9.
A Lizard hands Isaac a flyer.
CAMERA zooms in -- glossy photos of garbage trucks, police
officers and a smiling picture of Councillor Adams.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
It was the support of my community -
- that’s what got me a seat at the
table. That’s what got us a seat at
the table.
Someone in the crowd cheers.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
As we begin the first phase of the
Library District Revitalization
Project you’re going to see the
difference we’ve made together
already.
Isaac drags the plywood down the road until the rally fades
to background noise.
CUT TO:
INT. ISAAC’S NOOK - NIGHT
Isaac tosses the plywood down.
The air wooshes his lint backward.
He turns on the pylon lamp and slides the plywood under his
cardboard mattress.
He lies down, crosses his arms behind his head and smiles.
CUT TO:
Isaac reads through the flyer.
He slowly inspects the pictures.
CAMERA zooms in on the flyer’s title -- LIBRARY DISTRICT
REVITALIZATION PROJECT
Below the letters is a map of the city -- a bright yellow 3D
model of an oddly shaped building is planted in the middle of
it.
CUT TO:10.
10.
EXT. ISAAC’S NOOK - DAY
Isaac leans on the dumpster.
He’s still looking at the 3D model on the front of the flyer.
Edmund is knee deep in the dumpster, rattling through the
cans.
EDMUND
You give people too much man, it
makes them forget what they’ve got.
They get lazy. You got to have that
competition. You got to work longer
and harder than the next guy.
That’s how you get by.
Edmund digs out a pop bottle, it’s ripped in half.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
I’m telling you -- this Adams guy
is a clown. These new garbage
routes he’s got coming around --
I’m making a third of what I was
before they started this thing.
Isaac looks back and forth from the flyer to the horizon,
trying to understand where the 3D model is meant to be.
Edmund jumps down and looks at the flyer.
He reorients the map for Isaac.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
All that there -- is nothing more
than a way of clearing us out.
Edmund reorganizes the bottles in the cart.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
But what I’m saying -- the more
obstacles they put in my way, the
harder I work. And the harder I
work -- the better I do.
Isaac jumps up and puts his arm out.
They slam their fists together.
CUT TO:11.
11.
EXT. DOWNTOWN - DAY
High heeled Hamsters hold handfuls of oversized pink and
white shopping bags.
An Iguana wears a tie and drinks a latte while messaging on
his cell phone.
Isaac follows the map on the flyer.
He weaves through traffic, oblivious to the vehicles that
honk and swerve around him.
CUT TO:
EXT. CENTRAL LIBRARY - DAY
CAMERA close on a paper notice that’s taped to the doorway --
THE CENTRAL LIBRARY WILL CLOSE --
The automatic doors open -- the notice slides out of the way.
CAMERA zooms out -- Isaac has triggered the door.
Isaac stands very still so that the doors close again.
CAMERA focuses back on the notice -- ON OCTOBER 03 2010 THE
CENTRAL LIBRARY WILL CLOSE PERMANENTLY.
Isaac pounces up and rips the notice off the door.
CUT TO:
INT. ALLEYWAY - ISAAC’S NOOK - DAY
Isaac looks at the notice again and sighs.
He sighs and files the flyer and the notice back on the
bookshelf.
He looks through his other titles.
He considers the cell phone instruction manual but decides on
the empty Gummy Bear package.
CUT TO:
EXT. PARK - DAY
Isaac lays on a bench. He holds the empty Gummy Bear package
up to the sun.12.
12.
The sun glows through the plastic.
The package shows a graphic of a neon blueberry flavored
Gummy Bear.
Isaac sits up and notices a fluffy white Bunny across the
park.
The Bunny wears a suit jacket, leather shoes and reads a
novel.
Isaac looks at his own lint matted fur and his ripped up
sneakers.
He looks shy, ashamed.
Isaac looks down at the ingredients on the empty Gummy Bear
package -- MADE WITH 100% REAL FRUIT.
CUT TO:
EXT. STREET - NIGHT
CAMERA follows Isaac past a set of dull colored, abandoned
storefronts.
One of the shops looks very out of place, it’s brightly lit
and eccentrically painted.
Isaac peaks into the window.
Refrigerators and deep freezes line the walls.
It’s a brand new ice cream parlour.
A sign posted out front reads -- GRAND OPENING THIS WEEKEND!
CAMERA follows Isaac around back to the alleyway.
A massive construction dumpster -- a treasure chest.
He climbs up, and is about to dive in when -- a shadow looms
over him.
CAMERA follows Isaac’s gaze upward to -- a dark and
nefariously ominous garbage truck.
It is identical to the picture on the flyer.
Isaac jumps down and hides.
The truck jerkily raises the dumpster, empties it and then
rumbles back to the street.13.
13.
Isaac discretely follows the truck to the next alleyway.
A Silkworm and a Bumblebee hop out.
They hose down the alleyway and collect scattered trash into
the back of the truck.
CUT TO:
EXT. ALLEYWAY - ISAAC’S NOOK - NIGHT
CAMERA rushes to follow Isaac.
The dumpster has been cleared out and pressure washed.
A chunk of Isaac’s plywood lies broken on the ground.
The alleyway is sparkling clean.
The grime and garbage are gone.
Isaac runs to the nook.
The tarp is missing.
His sleeping bag, the pylon lamp, the cardboard mattress, and
his clothes are gone.
The door to Isaac’s bookshelf has fallen onto the ground.
The cell phone instruction manual, the take out menu and the
library notice have all been blasted to wet mush.
Isaac picks Gus’s business card up off the ground.
It’s smudged but still legible.
There is an address on the back -- 54 WOLVES GREEN CRESCENT.
Isaac puts the business card into the empty Gummy Bear
package and puts it into his pocket.
He picks the door off the ground and sees the only thing that
didn’t get ruined -- the Councillor Adams flyer.
Councillor Adam’s smiling picture looks up at Isaac.
CUT TO:14.
14.
EXT. OUTREACH CENTER - DAY
A long lineup wraps around the block and leads to a bright
seafoam green building.
This is the Outreach Center.
A Lizard gives sandwiches out to the people in the lineup.
AMANDA, a Gopher, holds a clipboard.
She wears a hoodie and a name tag.
AMANDA
Hey.
Isaac turns around.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
My name’s Amanda I um -- can we
talk for a moment?
He nods.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
I’m collecting signatures for a
petition that will amend the zoning
boundaries for the Revitalization
Project. We’re trying to help
community residents from being
displaced. Would you be open to
signing?
Isaac looks at the clipboard.
CAMERA -- a mother Sparrow and her children eat the
sandwiches.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
(to Camera)
Oh, hey um -- can I just -- I’m not
sure if it’s the best idea for you
guys to be filming here.
The mother Sparrow turns her head away from CAMERA.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
A lot of folks -- I think might
prefer not to be on camera -- if
you don’t mind.
CUT TO:15.
15.
EXT. UNDERPASS - DAY
A legless Fly sleeps on the sidewalk and uses a sneaker as a
pillow.
Tarps, tents and shopping carts line the underpass sidewalk.
There is no room to walk, CAMERA follows Isaac along the
road.
A truck rips past -- clipping the AUDIO.
CUT TO:
EXT. CENTRAL LIBRARY - DAY
CAMERA -- flashes orange as it scans past the plastic
construction fence.
The entire library is sealed off from the public.
Isaac peers through the fence -- Worms, Ferrets, and Newts
wear hard hats and safety vests.
They lug rebar, piping and the like.
Isaac follows along the fence, trying to get a better view.
He eventually comes to an enormous canvas banner.
The letters are gigantic, he has to tilt his head to read
them -- FUTURE HOME OF THE NEW CENTRAL LIBRARY.
A more intricate graphic of the yellow 3D model is printed
even bigger than the letters.
EXT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DAY
Isaac sits on the curb and looks through the flyer -- the
picture of the police officers, the garbage truck and
Councillor Adams.
A Bedbug with bloodshot eyes and a ripped up trucker hat
bursts out of the restaurant -- this is Michelangelo.
MICHELANGELO
What is this -- some kind of save
the children hamburger commercial?
Michelangelo tries to grab CAMERA.16.
16.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Lemme try that thing --
CAMERA shakes and retreats.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
-- I’m just messing with you. What
you filming for?
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
It’s uh - um - it’s about the uh --
some of the changes in the uh --
neighbourhood and --
Michelangelo squints at CAMERA. He looks baffled.
MICHELANGELO
-- Sorry, what?
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
It’s a um -- documentary --
MICHELANGELO
Documentaries suck!
Michelangelo sees Isaac’s flyer.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Yo Councillor Adams! You like that
guy? Bedbugs always cluster bro, I
know him -- I can introduce you.
Isaac looks to CAMERA.
CAMERA -- back to Michelangelo.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
You don’t think I’m good for it?
Yo, listen -- when I tell someone I
can do something I always come
through on my word.
CAMERA swings to -- flashing red and blue sirens howl.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Uh oh.
A police car zooms into the parking lot.
Officer Sam and Officer Earl, the Squirrel and Pigeon cops
get out.17.
17.
OFFICER EARL
(TO CAMERA)
Camera. Hand it over.
Officer Sam sprays Michelangelo in the face with DDT.
MICHELANGELO
AHH!
Michelangelo falls backward. He coughs and covers his eyes.
Officer Sam kicks him and sprays him again.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
I don’t got nothing man.
Officer Earl tries to take the CAMERA.
CAMERA moves backward.
OFFICER EARL
(TO CAMERA)
Shut that thing off.
CAMERA swings to Michelangelo.
He tries to get back up.
Officer Sam sprays him again.
Michelangelo screams and twitches.
OFFICER EARL (CONT'D)
(TO CAMERA)
What’d I just say? Gimme that
thing!
Officer Earl swipes at CAMERA.
CAMERA knocks onto the ground.
CAMERA tilted POV - Officer Sam sprays the can of DDT onto
Michelangelo.
Michelangelo no longer coughs or moves.
Officer Sam continues to empty the can.
And -- BASH! -- Isaac uses all his might to slam a garbage
can lid onto Officer Sam’s head.
Officer Sam hits the ground.
The garbage can lid drops, obstructing the frame.18.
18.
OFFICER EARL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
(INTO RADIO)
CODE EIGHT -- CODE EIGHT -- OFFICER
DOWN! I need an ambulance now!
Michelangelo peels himself off the ground and limps off.
OFFICER EARL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
Get back here!
Officer Earl runs to Officer Sam.
OFFICER EARL (CONT'D)
Sam, Sam, you okay buddy?
Officer Sam does not respond.
CAMERA is scooped up and limps into traffic.
Asphalt blurs the frame.
Vehicles zoom past, almost smashing CAMERA into oblivion.
CAMERA frantically rushes through an alleyway, it crashes
over a trash can.
CAMERA slides across the ground and drops to -- a fire escape
cuts diagonally through bright blue sky.
AUDIO -- coughing.
CAMERA turns around to -- close on Michelangelo.
He has stolen the CAMERA.
His eyes are extremely swollen.
He laughs.
MICHELANGELO
Introducing -- the NEW cheesy
double stack max with sizzling ice
cold pickles and flame charbroiled
bu-bu-bu-bunsssss -- available now
at participating locations near
you.
CUT TO:
EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT
B CAMERA -- has a significantly steadier and wider look than
CAMERA.19.
19.
The movement seems stilted and slow.
There is less depth to the shots.
It feels less intimate.
B CAMERA -- Isaac’s feet hang off the edge of the rooftop.
Isaac looks out into the neighbourhood.
Five or six police cars slowly patrol the grid below.
The headlights one of the police cars bloom and fade into B
CAMERA.
The city skyline glows on the horizon.
B CAMERA slowly turns to reveal -- INTERVIEWER is a skinny
timid Lemur.
His windbreaker is zipped up to his nose and his baseball hat
covers most of his face, his orange eyes are piercing.
INTERVIEWER
Isaac, I think -- I think we’ll uh -
- I think we need to put the movie
on hold and -- um -- lay low for a
while -- I -- um --
B CAMERA close on Isaac’s clenched fists.
Interviewer takes an envelope from his pocket.
INTERVIEWER (O.S.) (CONT'D)
I’d like to um -- uh I’d like to
compensate you for your troubles --
and -- I um -- I hope you can
understand --
Isaac ignores Interviewer, instead he looks at Gus’s business
card -- 54 WOLVES GREEN CRESCENT.
B CAMERA moves closer to Isaac.
Camera Op also ignores Interviewer.
Isaac gets up, B CAMERA stays close to him.
CUT TO:20.
20.
EXT. STREET - NIGHT
Two Butterflies dressed in matching track suits stand on the
street corner.
The street lamp above them flickers -- one of the Butterflies
boots it -- it stops flickering.
Isaac peers around the corner.
CAMERA OP (O.S.)
I got your back bro.
Isaac puts his fist out -- Camera Op knocks it.
CAMERA swings around -- Interviewer is back -- he is out of
breath -- he nods at Isaac, at CAMERA.
CAMERA OP (O.S.) (CONT'D)
You good?
Isaac reaches his fist out -- Interviewer also knocks it.
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
Ya.
A cop car slowly passes the alleyway.
Isaac holds his hand out, signalling for them to stay put.
Everyone shimmies up to the wall -- waiting until the coast
is clear.
Isaac holds his hand out -- 3 -- 2 -- 1.
Isaac sprints across the road -- B CAMERA follows closely
behind.
RED AND BLUE FLASHES, sirens, screeching tires.
CAMERA follows Isaac at full speed through the park.
Bushes wack against the lens.
Isaac close on B CAMERA, stop -- hold.
Two flashlights search into the park.
CAMERA quietly follows Isaac into the darkness.
CUT TO:EXT. 54 WOLVES GREEN POINTE - NIGHT
The moon glows onto a burning curbside trash can.
KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK.
Gus wears an undershirt.
Wrestling flickers on the TV behind him.
GUS
The hell?
He rubs his eyes.
ISAAC
Some guy stole our camera.
Gus looks behind them in both directions.
GUS
(Whispers)
Anyone follow you?
Isaac shakes his head.
GUS (CONT'D)
You sure?
Isaac nods.
GUS (CONT'D)
Decoy address. Let’s get out of
here.
EXT. HILLSIDE - SEWER DRAIN PIPE - NIGHT
B CAMERA close on Gus --
GUS
You been in court before?
Isaac shakes his head.
GUS (CONT'D)
I will tell you right off the bat
here -- none of this is gonna be
pretty. Not at all whatsoever.
Especially with you knocking that
cop out and all but -- I will say --
I commend your resilience.
(MORE)
(MORE)
21.
21.
CUT TO:22.
22.
GUS (CONT'D)
GUS (CONT'D)
By the sounds of it you stood your
ground in the face of oppression
and in doing so saved that Bedbug’s
life. For that you have my utmost
respect but -- without that footage
I’m not sure we’ll stand a fighting
chance when our day comes.
Isaac nods.
GUS (CONT'D)
But now before we go any further
I’ll ask that you allow me to
acknowledge a bit of housekeeping.
It’s true what they say -- I am a
damn good attorney -- so surely you
must understand that my fees
reflect as such. We can talk brass
tax and fine print later but I
don’t work for nothing, capeesh?
Isaac shrugs.
GUS (CONT'D)
Well alright then, it’s official. I
work for you now. Onto our first
order of business. That Bedbug they
fumigated. From what ya’ll told me -
- I couldn’t help but get the
impression that he may have been --
how can I put this lightly --
hooked on phonics -- you understand
what I mean by that?
Isaac stares blankly.
He doesn’t know.
GUS (CONT'D)
Alright, follow me.
CUT TO:
EXT. PARK - DAY
A Gerbil, Lizard and a Grasshopper set up a large canopy
tent.
An Ant and a Hamster lug plastic fold out tables off a truck.
A sign posted outside of a tent reads -- OVERDOSE PREVENTION
SITE.23.
23.
B CAMERA follows the Ant while she sets up more tables.
ANT
We’re not actually affiliated with
the government in any way, and our
funding is really limited but --
the police do leave us alone for
the most part. I think for them if
they just let us operate then it
keeps everything confined into the
park here and that works better for
them at the end of the day.
CUT TO:
GERBIL
Mosquitos and Bedbugs are
especially vulnerable since they’re
naturally dependent on blood --
they’re not the only types we see
around here but it is common for
them to get hooked. When they can’t
get the blood they need to survive
maybe due to their financial
situations or what have you -- they
start using blood alternatives like
Hemogoblin to survive.
A Lizard sits at a small fold out table.
He wears plastic gloves and swabs a vile of red liquid --
Hemogoblin.
LIZARD
My job is -- well for example what
I got here is someone brought a bag
of Hemogoblin, which is a synthetic
blood alternative that we’re seeing
a lot of. It was sold to them on
the street and they can see there’s
some different coloring in the bag
so we’re going to test it and see
what comes up.
The Lizard dips the swab into a test tube solution.
B CAMERA close on the swab.24.
24.
LIZARD (CONT'D)
I can see already that’s indicative
that this is mostly just DDT -- I
wouldn’t be surprised if this was a
lethal dose.
CUT TO:
A Mosquito stands by a puddle.
CAMERA -- rack focus to background -- Isaac walks to a fold
out table and pours coffee from an urn into a styrofoam cup.
MOSQUITO
This is where I hang out. Parks
alright. People don’t judge us here
so much. I know there’s talk of
them cleaning the place out. I
don’t know where they’ll move the
site but -- a lot of us don’t have
much family in our lives so --- I
mean -- our community needs this
kind of thing.
CUT TO:
Michelangelo’s slumped on the steps of a gazebo.
His head swoops, he can barely keep his eyes open.
He smiles, dopily -- it’s unclear if he’s awake.
GUS
You tell us where that damn camera
is!
MICHELANGELO
Yo, ya I’m good man, you?
GUS
Kid, don’t make me ask you a second
time -- where the hell’d you take
that camera to?
Isaac throws the coffee into Michelangelo’s face.
Michelangelo jolts up.
MICHELANGELO
I don’t got your damn camera!
GUS
The hell you don’t.25.
25.
CAMERA OP
(to Interviewer)
Hold this --
Interviewer takes B CAMERA.
CAMERA OP walks into frame.
He’s a hefty Bearded Dragon, with thick pop bottle glasses
and a stoic disposition.
Camera Op picks Michelangelo up by the ankle and flips him
upside down.
MICHELANGELO
What the hell!
Camera Op shakes Michelangelo out.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Get off me man.
A vile of Hemogoblin falls out of his pocket.
Gus picks it up.
He opens the lid and threatens to pour it on the ground.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Ok. Ok -- I’ll tell you. I’ll tell
you -- just -- don’t --
CUT TO:
INT. PAWN SHOP - DAY
Michelangelo leans onto a glass cabinet.
He stares at the diamonds in the case.
Isaac looks through computer parts on the wall.
Gus stands by the till, across from a TORTOISE.
The Tortoise wears massive glasses and has deep circles under
his eyes.
B CAMERA angles on the CAMERA between them.
TORTOISE
Three hundred. As is.26.
26.
GUS
I’ll tell you -- I love seeing a
place like this. You got your own
private economy here don’t you? Let
me ask you something -- you pay
taxes?
The Tortoise raises an eyebrow at him.
TORTOISE
The price is firm.
GUS
I’d be pocketing all this cash if I
was you, no credit cards, no
records, nothing. How much is rent
here?
The Tortoise shoos Michelangelo off the counter.
TORTOISE
You want the camera or not?
GUS
You know, I got no doubt in my mind
that you’ve got every right in
conducting your business in
whichever way you please but --
Interviewer pulls an envelope of bills from his pocket.
Everyone’s attention is immediately transfixed as he counts
the bills onto the counter.
CUT TO:
INT. GUS’S APARTMENT - DAY
The ceiling fan warbles in the stucco.
Stacks of sun bleached newspaper are piled into milk crates.
Cactus line the dusty window sill.
CAMERA is attached to the TV.
TV - FOOTAGE - PLAYBACK - SPED UP 2X
Isaac sits on fast food restaurant curb, Michelangelo talks
to Isaac, tries to grab camera, police car zooms into parking
lot, Officer Sam, Officer Earl get out, Officer Sam sprays
Michaelangelo with insecticide.27.
27.
Officer Earl comes after camera, Officer Sam empties
insecticide onto Michelangelo until he no longer moves, Isaac
SLAMS garbage can lid onto Officer Sam’s head, Officer Sam
hits ground.
Interviewer STOPS playback.
Gus sighs.
Gus gives Michelangelo the Hemogoblin vile.
Michelangelo takes a big swig of it.
Everyone is quiet until --
Michelangelo takes off his hat.
His eyes are dopey. He smiles.
MICHELANGELO
(to Isaac)
Man, you saved my life.
Isaac goes to the TV, he gestures to Interviewer.
Interviewer rewinds the footage.
Isaac holds his hand out to stop.
TV - FOOTAGE - PLAYBACK
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Yo Councillor Adams! You like that
guy? Bedbugs always cluster bro, I
know him -- I can introduce you.
Isaac looks to CAMERA.
CAMERA back to Michelangelo.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
You don’t think I’m good for it?
Yo, listen -- when I tell someone I
can do something I always come
through on my word.
- STOP PLAYBACK.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Right. I -- uh --
Isaac nods at Interviewer.
Interviewer rewinds the tape and plays it again.28.
28.
TV - FOOTAGE - PLAYBACK
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
You don’t think I’m good for it?
Yo, listen -- when I tell someone I
can do something I always come
through on my word.
- STOP PLAYBACK.
Everyone stares at Michelangelo.
MICHELANGELO (CONT'D)
Ok. Ok. Yup. We can meet him. I’ll
set it up. No problem. Uh -- can I
use the phone?
CUT TO:
B CAMERA -- close on Camera Op as he installs B CAMERA into
Gus’s wheelchair.
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
Tomorrow -- when we uh -- when we
meet Councillor Adams -- we won’t
uh -- we can get him on tape and --
he won’t know we’re even recording
so -- you know -- if he says
anything --
GUS
You mean you got me wearing a damn
wire?
B CAMERA -- Gus’s POV -- Gus’s profile and cowboy hat blur in
and out of the corner of the frame.
GUS (CONT'D)
Ha. So it looks where I look?
B CAMERA -- Michaelangelo pricks his finger on a cactus that
sits on the windowsill.
B CAMERA -- zips in circles, the movement is fast and jerky.
GUS (CONT'D)
You hear that Kid?
MICHELANGELO
Ya.
GUS
You better come through on this
thing.29.
29.
MICHELANGELO
Ya ya, I’m good.
CUT TO:
EXT. STREET - NIGHT
The sign outside the ice cream parlous reads -- GRAND
OPENING!
CAMERA pans across a line up of affluent fashionable
Chipmunks, Dragonflies and Crickets.
They lick ice cream cones and use their cell phones.
The lineup wraps around the block.
Edmund digs through a curbside garbage can.
He looks pale and exhausted.
EDMUND
Where you been man? I came by the
nook and --
Isaac goes to knock fists with him but Edmund almost falls
over.
Edmund leans on the garbage can.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
I’m real behind on my work, but --
this is all just gonna make us
stronger in the end.
Edmund smiles but looks like he’s going to pass out.
Edmund wipes the sweat off his forehead.
A familiar, ominous shadow looms over Edmund.
Isaac turns towards it.
CAMERA -- tilts up to reveal the source of the shadow -- a
garbage truck.
The Silkworm jumps out from the back and heads towards a
trash can up the street.
Isaac goes up to him.
ISAAC
Hey man, don’t take that.30.
30.
SILKWORM
Come again?
Isaac tugs the trash can away from the Silkworm.
SILKWORM (CONT'D)
Man, what the hell?
The Silkworm yanks the trash can from him.
ISAAC
We need those cans!
Isaac tugs the garbage can back -- napkins, ice cream cones
and cans spill all over the road.
The Bumblebee hops out of the truck.
BUMBLEBEE
You got to relax buddy.
Edmund puts his hand on Isaac’s shoulder.
EDMUND
Isaac, I appreciate what you’re
trying to do but -- this is just
the way it goes.
Isaac pushes Edmund off him.
ISAAC
Man, maybe we got to have each
other’s backs every once in a
while.
EDMUND
Isaac, you look out for you and I
look out for me. That’s how it’s
got to work.
POLICE SIRENS light up.
Isaac looks to CAMERA -- RUN.
CAMERA rushes after Isaac at full throttle.
They crash through the ice cream shop and bursts into the
alleyway --
Another police car swerves in from around the corner.
Isaac and Interviewer run in the other direction -- CAMERA is
close behind.31.
31.
POLICE SIRENS rip in from around the corner.
All directions are blocked and -- A HELICOPTER SPOTLIGHT
blares down onto Isaac.
CAMERA tilts up to the helicopter -- the frame blows out.
Another police car screeches in from the alleyway.
Isaac holds his hands over his eyes, the helicopter blinds
him.
CAMERA swings all around.
Three more police cars screech in -- blocking every
direction.
Camera Op passes CAMERA to Interviewer.
Interviewer takes CAMERA.
Camera Op lifts a sewer lid from the ground.
Isaac doesn’t know where to run.
Officer Earl gets out of the squad car.
He draws his baton and moves towards the helicopter
spotlight.
Isaac cracks his knuckles and gets ready but --
Camera Op grabs Isaac and throws him into the sewer.
Camera Op takes CAMERA back from Interviewer.
Interviewer looks horrified.
He jumps into the sewer after Isaac.
Camera Op follows -- CAMERA falls into blackness --
And -- SPLASH.
Murky water FLOODS the frame.
Erratic splashing, gasping for air.
CAMERA rises to -- police flashlights beam from the manhole
opening.
Interviewer struggles to keep his head above water.32.
32.
Another rush of water blasts towards the frame -- drowning
into the sewer.
Isaac tries to grab onto it --
EXT. PARK - GAZEBO - DAY
B CAMERA - GUS’S POV - Gus’s cowboy hat fades in and out of
the frame.
He looks at his watch.
The second hand ticks along.
GUS
Huh.
The park is quiet.
Light rain wakes a sleeping Skunk.
The Ant and Lizard set up the canopy tent.
Michelangelo yawns and slumps down on the gazebo steps.
MICHELANGELO
Maybe your watch is broken man.
GUS
Ain’t nothing wrong with my damn
watch. Where’s the rest of them?
MICHELANGELO
Dunno man.
Michelangelo yawns again.
Gus zooms his wheelchair in circles, pacing the gazebo.
Michelangelo looks up at him.
GUS
What?
MICHELANGELO
I’m trying to be more patient --
like as a general thing -- in life -
- but -- yo seriously! How long we
got to wait for?
Gus stares at him for a moment.33.
33.
GUS
Kid, you know -- let me tell you
something. It means a lot to show
up on time. I must say -- I
appreciate your punctuality.
MICHELANGELO
Of course.
Michelangelo takes a swig of Hemogoblin.
GUS
If those other guys aren’t showing
up -- well -- maybe you’re right --
we can’t sit around and wait for
them.
MICHELANGELO
That’s what I’m saying man!
GUS
So -- listen -- in my opinion --
you do got a decent case against
them police you know. Perhaps an
even stronger case than the Bunny.
MICHELANGELO
Nah, I’m not getting involved in
that.
GUS
You ever been in court before?
MICHELANGELO
I don’t believe in that kind of
thing -- the system is a figment of
your mind bro -- you need to start
thinking bigger --
GUS
-- Fair sized payout for that kind
of thing.
MICHELANGELO
For what -- kind of thing?
GUS
Them police would rather you didn’t
go public with that footage of them
senselessly battering you. They got
cash set aside for that kind of
thing. You catch my drift?
Michelangelo looks at him.34.
34.
MICHELANGELO
Um, not really dude.
GUS
Kid -- one way or another that
score has got to settle.
Retribution is coming if you like
it or not.
Michelangelo nods along.
GUS (CONT'D)
And before that day of reckoning I
got one piece of advice for you. If
I may --
MICHELANGELO
Uh huh.
GUS
You want to cash in on this thing?
I mean you want to -- really --
cash in on this thing -- you’d best
better get yourself an attorney and
lawyer up.
CUT TO:
INT. SEWER
AUDIO - slithering drips echo through the empty sewer,
filling every nook and corridor.
CAMERA - a faint glow in the background.
AUDIO - squeaking screeching claws hollow through the sewers
until all that’s left is a single resonant drip.
ISAAC (O.S.)
Guys?
The red record light reflects into his lint.
ISAAC (CONT'D)
GUYS?
Isaac picks up CAMERA -- the picture becomes heavily out of
focus.
CAMERA moves towards a soft glow.
Dripping stalactite fade in from above, greasy grey sludge
dunes rise from below.35.
35.
AUDIO - a shrill metal squall.
CAMERA whips to follow but cannot find the source.
AUDIO - an interment drip.
CAMERA - a pool of murky sludge.
AUDIO - a low rumble, the drip becomes louder.
CAMERA - slowly zooms toward thick maundering bubbles,
searching for the source of the drip.
CAMERA - stops on a little splash.
AUDIO - the low rumble becomes louder -- until it becomes a
tumultuous growl -- but then -- stillness.
A hallowing amphibious ROAR bursts from the sludge pool --
NEON YELLOW JAW BONES AND RAT TEETH -- SNAP at CAMERA from
all directions.
Isaac bolts down the corridor.
GLOWING EYES and TEETH rage after him.
Sludge splashes onto the lens.
The corridor ends, and drops into vast darkness.
CAMERA turns back to the monster -- this is the RATKING --
thirteen decrepit ghostly Rat heads lower their gaze and
growl, one false move and it will snap again.
Isaac waits.
He lowers CAMERA.
One of the Rats nips at him.
Isaac jumps back.
All of the Rat’s tails are tied in a knot.
The Ratking ROARS.
CAMERA tumbles backwards.
Isaac picks himself up.
He shows his hands are empty.
ISAAC (CONT'D)
Hey man --36.
36.
Yellow steam huffs off the Ratking.
CAMERA - the Ratking’s eyes are abysmal, pupils glazed over,
lifeless.
They look deceased, possessed.
Isaac stops -- taken by the creature’s suffering.
He slowly reaches his hand outward, a gentle offer to knock
fists with the Ratking --
A clicking emerges, slowly echoing from a dark tunnel.
The Ratking scurries back to where it came from.
A white cane appears from the darkness, followed by a
tattered and ragged hooded figure.
The figure removes his hood, he wears a stained and ripped
lab coat on top of his hoodie.
This is DWIGHT -- he has no eyes, ears or nose.
He is a faceless, anemic, Blind Salamander.
CUT TO:
EXT. BUS STOP - DAY
Gus and Michelangelo wait at the bus stop.
Michelangelo takes a swig from the Hemogoblin vile.
GUS
We file this as a civil case not a
criminal case you see, reason being
is that no one, I mean no one, ever
in the history of --
MICHELANGELO
-- Bro, you are tripping me out.
All I want to know is one thing --
GUS
-- Kid, you got to hold on and let
me finish!
MICHELANGELO
Just tell me how much MONEY we can
get off this thing!
The bus arrives.37.
37.
The hydraulics release, the wheelchair ramp comes down.
GUS
You want an attorney or you want to
just let the cops get away with
almost taking your damn life?
MICHELANGELO
You’ve got to learn how to chill.
GUS
Damn it kid.
Gus shows his bus pass to the Bus Driver.
Michelangelo doesn’t pay.
GUS (CONT'D)
Ya’ll gonna pay up?
MICHELANGELO
I don’t got no money man.
GUS
Kid, let me tell you something.
Sometimes it’s not about the money.
Sometimes it’s the principal that
counts.
Gus takes a dollar from his pouch and hands it to
Michelangelo.
MICHELANGELO
Thanks man.
Michelangelo puts the dollar into his pocket.
Gus smacks Michelangelo.
GUS
Pay the damn fare numbskull!
CUT TO:
INT. SEWER - DWIGHT’S CAVE
CAMERA -- searches through the cave.
Yellow coals glow in a firepit, a sleeping mat, a small
bookshelf.
It looks similar to Isaac’s nook.38.
38.
Isaac puts the CAMERA by the firepit.
The picture is mostly blurred.
Yellow flames pixelate in and out of the frame.
DWIGHT
And what do you seek with this?
Dwight’s white cane taps CAMERA lens.
Isaac is protective of CAMERA, he moves it away from Dwight.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
Ay yes -- that is certain --
Isaac raises an eyebrow at Dwight.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
These tunnels have been long
dormant, I do not know what you
will find here.
Dwight slowly nods.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
Yes -- I am sorry to hear of your
trouble but -- I -- oh -- yes --
Isaac looks confused.
Dwight laughs.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
Us, you say?
ISAAC
Man, I didn’t say nothing man!
DWIGHT
Isaac, I can only read thoughts --
I cannot hear the words.
Isaac takes in Dwight’s lack of eyes, ears and nose.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
Should you not seek anything beyond
your self then nothing is what you
will find -- I will ask you again --
what do you seek in these tunnels?
ISAAC
I’m looking for my friends!39.
39.
DWIGHT
Pardon me?
Isaac closes his eyes and concentrates.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
Your friends yes -- I see -- come --
I will show you.
Dwight walks further into the cave.
Isaac wearily follows Dwight into the darkness.
Dwight points to an intricate map that’s engraved into the
wall.
Dwight’s white cane points to an entrance on the top of the
map.
The white cane follows along the tunnels on the map.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
No matter which path you have taken
-- it does not matter -- all
tunnels lead to one place --
He slaps the white cane to a cluster of thirteen Rat Skulls
in the center of the map.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
-- RATPARK.
CUT TO:
INT. SEWER - RIVER
Dwight sits cross legged with his hands in a meditative
position.
He floats above the center of the Ratking, the knot that
holds its tails together.
The yellow glow surrounds the Ratking enabling it to hover
over the sewer river -- Dwight and Isaac ride the Ratking as
a boat.
CAMERA -- heaps of multicolored garbage overflow into the
sludgy river water.
DWIGHT
The Ratpark experiment began with
just a single Rat -- alone in his
cage.
(MORE)
(MORE)40.
40.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
But -- this was not an ordinary
cage -- it was an immaculate
palace. The Rat was provided the
finest meals, anything he desired --
for free. The only payment is that
he was required to face his life
alone.
They pass abandoned, caved in decrepit shacks.
Scorched vehicles and boats.
A row of blown out buildings.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
Inside of the cage were two
separate water supplies -- one
provided ordinary water and the
other -- Hemogoblin. The Rat could
choose his preference but alas he
soon became dependent on the
Hemogoblin and before long -- he
was deceased.
A collapsed power line electrocutes a section of the water.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
To exist alone -- proved poisonous,
futile.
CUT TO:
INT. BUS - DAY
Gus and Michelangelo ride the bus.
DWIGHT (V.O.)
The second phase of the experiment
involved a much bigger cage. The
difference -- was that a group of
Rats would inhabit it. They were
provided the same luxuries as the
original Rat but they were granted
the ability to spend their time
together, in their beautiful homes,
with all of the food they could
ever dream of. They would not have
to scavenge for any of it.
Everything they wanted, all for
free. For nothing.
Gus reaches into his pouch and grabs a granola bar.41.
41.
Michelangelo slowly looks over at it.
DWIGHT (V.O.)
The two water supplies remained,
one with ordinary water the second
containing Hemogoblin. The
difference now, is that suddenly
not even a single Rat touched the
Hemogoblin.
Gus breaks a piece off the granola bar and gives it to
Michelangelo.
DWIGHT (V.O.)
It was clear that the connection to
others meant everything --
Michelangelo passes Gus the water bottle.
Gus takes a swig.
DWIGHT (V.O.)
-- it was that connection -- that
stopped the Rats from ever getting
hooked in the first place.
CUT TO:
INT. SEWER - RIVER
Shimmering oil floats in the harbour.
DWIGHT
As their connection strengthened
there came a time -- when things
changed. When the inhabitants
learned that someone had such great
power over them -- despite the fact
that this ruler granted them their
every wish -- asking nothing in
return -- they saw to it to bound
together. In an attempt to
overthrow their leader they gave up
everything they had.
A decrepit metal arch comes into focus.
Massive iron letters read -- RATPARK.
DWIGHT (CONT’D) (CONT'D)
But in the end -- they met their
demise.42.
42.
CAMERA close on Dwight.
CUT TO:
INT. LEGAL OFFICE - DAY
B CAMERA - Josephine, a Mantis in a grey suit bites into
salad.
JOSEPHINE
I’m going to pretend I didn’t hear
that.
GUS
You think we came all the way down
here --
JOSEPHINE
-- Gus, we’re not a very big firm.
You know that. I’d love to help
you, but really.
GUS
Alright. I get it. Appreciate your
time. Come on kid.
JOSEPHINE
Ok, hold up.
Josephine puts the salad down.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
If the video’s what you say it is
then really, what do you need us
for?
GUS
It’s a matter of cash flow see. If
the firm could front some of the
fees up front -- it’d go a long way
for us alright?
Josephine watches Michelangelo dopily stare up at the
ceiling.
GUS (CONT'D)
In return, and there’s no doubt
there’s a return on this one, I
imagine the press alone would go a
long way for ya’ll.43.
43.
JOSEPHINE
Sorry Gus, I mean -- if you had the
actual video with you that’d be one
thing -- but for now -- it’s merely
hearsay no?
CUT TO:
EXT. COUNCILLOR ADAM’S OFFICE - DAY
B CAMERA - Gus and Michelangelo walk by a pizza shop, a
discount furniture store, a Racoon hangs a sign -- BLOWOUT
SALE! GOING OUT OF BUSINESS.
A Skunk panhandles at the end of the block.
Gus pushes the handicap button at the office entrance, the
door props open.
MICHELANGELO
Hey Gus -- before we go in --
GUS
Uh huh?
MICHELANGELO
So if we win you make a bit of cash
too right?
GUS
That’s right.
MICHELANGELO
And I’ll make a bit of cash?
The door closes.
Gus pushes the button again.
Michelangelo sips the Hemogoblin.
GUS
That’s right.
Gus goes to wheel into the building but Michelangelo stops
him.
MICHELANGELO
You just gotta know that -- right
now, I’m doing alright, but times
gonna come and you’re gonna see me
acting more like -- like how you
saw me before.44.
44.
Michelangelo looks ashamed.
The Hemogoblin bottle is almost empty.
The automatic door closes again.
GUS
Kid, I get it.
Gus pushes the button.
The automatic door opens.
Michelangelo stops him.
MICHELANGELO
Can you just make sure that you
tell the guys that I went through
on my word, and introduced you?
GUS
That I can.
MICHELANGELO
Ok.
Michelangelo chugs back the final drops of Hemogoblin.
CUT TO:
INT. COUNCILLOR ADAM’S OFFICE - DAY
B CAMERA - Close on Councillor Adams.
Behind him is a view of the city, ten stories above ground.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
Oh! Right. Of course. Michelangelo.
From the neighbourhood. Ok. Right.
Well, what can I do for you fellas?
Michelangelo’s eyes dopily flutter, he smiles.
GUS
We got something we’re working
through and wanted to see if it
meant anything to you.
Councillor Adams texts on his phone.45.
45.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
I’m listening. I know people say
you can’t do this and listen but
I’m listening.
GUS
We’re trying to file for a civil
case on account of a certain
admission --
Councillor Adams looks at his watch.
He looks out the window.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
We can still talk but we gotta
watch this.
He angles his chair towards the window.
B CAMERA -- the Central Library, the massive banner -- FUTURE
HOME OF THE NEW CENTRAL LIBRARY.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
Come on over, fellas, we can’t miss
this.
CUT TO:
INT. RATPARK
CAMERA - soft waves gently rock the array of boats that are
docked along the canal.
CAMERA follows Dwight and the Ratking past a perfect row of
little pastel-colored shops.
Pink and yellow umbrellas perch from quaint outdoor tables.
Cobblestone streets, towering white pillars.
Dwight looks up at a fountain that’s built in the middle of a
traffic circle.
The fountain blasts immaculate water patterns high into the
air.
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
CAMERA zooms towards the fountain and cuts through the water.46.
46.
DWIGHT
I always wondered what they could
possibly be wishing for --
Large gold and silver coins pixelate.
DWIGHT (CONT'D)
-- and I never did find out where
they got those coins from.
CUT TO:
INT. COUNCILLOR ADAM’S OFFICE - DAY
Gus and Michelangelo sit at the window with Councillor Adams.
B CAMERA -- a gleaming crowd stands behind barricades across
from the library construction site.
Councillor Adams texts on his phone.
GUS
We got a court case coming up, and
wanted to pay the due respect to
our local representative before it
goes public.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
Uh huh.
Michelangelo stands at the window.
MICHELANGELO
Yo seriously -- this view is so
sick bro.
Councillor Adams smiles at Michelangelo.
GUS
Its got to do with them police and
the way they’ve been going on about
their day to day. This here mutual
friend of ours walked out of a
restaurant just days ago and almost
got DDT’d to death -- we got the
footage to prove it.
Councillor Adams puts his phone down.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
Footage?47.
47.
GUS
Uh huh. We don’t got it on us right
now but --
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
I see.
Councillor Adams looks at Michelangelo.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
You alright?
Michelangelo smiles.
MICHELANGELO
All good bro.
Councillor Adams is back on his phone.
GUS
I’ll tell you what Councillor, this
new initiative you got -- it’s not
helping anyone and before we go to
court and file the case --
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
Uh huh.
GUS
This revitalization is destroying
our damn neighbourhood -- running
longtime residents out of their
element!
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
Alright listen. I appreciate what
your saying, I really do but --
His phone lights up.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
-- Ok, here we go.
B CAMERA -- below to ground level -- cops stand and guard a
barricade.
Past the barricades are -- construction workers and blasters.
They wear hard hats and neon vests.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
The fact that I’ve even got a seat
up here -- is nothing short of a
miracle --48.
48.
Sirens blare from below.
The sound is faint through the glass.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
-- and I know you’re on the ground
down there -- trying to make a
difference in your own way but --
MEGAPHONE ANNOUNCEMENT
FIVE, FOUR --
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
-- I didn’t get here running my
mouth and rattling the cage every
time some Bedbug from the
neighbourhood got fumigated --
MEGAPHONE ANNOUNCEMENT
(CROWD JOINS IN)
-- THREE, TWO --
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
(to Michelangelo)
Ready?
MEGAPHONE ANNOUNCEMENT
(WITH CROWD)
ONE!
B CAMERA -- through the window -- an Armadillo Blaster forces
down the trigger on a box detonator.
Silence -- and -- BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM.
A chain of dynamite explodes along the bottom floor of the
Library.
CUT TO:
INT. RATPARK
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
CAMERA swings upward -- a massive chunk of concrete shoots
down and destroys the fountain.
The coins blast upward.
More chunks of concrete, brick and muck cave in and drop from
the ceiling.49.
49.
CAMERA swings back -- pillars crack, and crumble into
themselves.
A sharp jagged concrete piece comes plummeting towards CAMERA
-- but its stopped by a yellow glow.
CAMERA swings to -- Dwight holds the concrete with his yellow
power -- but fails to catch another enormous chunk that falls
behind him -- it slams down and crushes the Ratking.
A waterfall of muck flushes downward -- flooding Dwight out
of frame.
AUDIO - CLUNK - rebar smashes into the CAMERA lens CRACKING
it right down the middle.
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
CUT TO:
INT. COUNCILLOR ADAM’S OFFICE - DAY
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
If I keep playing my cards right,
then maybe just maybe one day I can
become mayor -- you believe that? A
Bedbug mayor?
BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM -- the middle floor detonates.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
That’s how I make a real difference
you understand? But at this point --
I’m just not sure what you want me
to do for you.
The Crowd below erupts in cheering, applauding, whistling.
Michelangelo lights up.
MICHELANGELO
Seriously dude. That was so dope
man. Yo, seriously!
Councillor Adams smiles at him.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS
Don’t you for a second think that I
don’t love this neighbourhood with
all my heart.
Gus is speechless.50.
50.
COUNCILLOR ADAMS (CONT'D)
You think you’re making a
difference? For who, exactly?
B CAMERA -- a massive cloud of dust and debris thickens and
rises from below.
CUT TO:
I/E. RATPARK / CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY
Thick blinding dust -- Ratpark is demolished.
AUDIO - distant crowd cheering, whistling and applauding.
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
Odd neon colors flash in and out of the cracked lens.
CAMERA - Isaac slowly climbs through the wreckage --
pixelated crumbled concrete and destroyed piping blurs in and
out of the frame.
CAMERA moves closer towards -- a red flickering beam through
the dust -- a smashed library barcode scanner.
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
CUT TO:
EXT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DAY - TV NEWS REPORT
CLOSED CIRCUIT SECURITY FOOTAGE -- A BIRD’S EYE VIEW
Interviewer and Camera Op film Isaac sitting on the curb.
Michelangelo walks out the front door.
WORM REPORTER (V.O.)
Closed circuit security footage has
surfaced regarding the assault of
Police Officer Sam Washington last
week.
The police car pulls in.
Officer Sam and Officer Earl get out, a white circle is
superimposed over Officer Sam as he sprays Michelangelo.
From this angle -- it is not possible to tell that
Michelangelo was being fumigated to death.51.
51.
WORM REPORTER (V.O.)
Police responded to the scene after
they were called by an employee of
the restaurant, saying the Bedbug
was disturbing customers and
harassing employees.
Isaac whacks Officer Sam over the head with the garbage can
lid.
Officer Sam hits the ground.
Isaac, Michelangelo, Interviewer and Camera Op flee.
CUT TO:
EXT. CENTRAL LIBRARY - WRECKAGE - DAY
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
CAMERA climbs through the wreckage -- towards the surface.
CAMERA falls along broken concrete slabs and wrought metal.
Decimated pixels blur in and out of the cracked lens.
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
Isaac crosses the barrier -- moves through the crowd.
CAMERA drags along the road, slumping -- all the way back to
the alleyway.
CUT TO:
EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT - TV NEWS REPORT
Officer Sam is pushed in a wheelchair from the hospital.
His head is wrapped in bandages.
WORM REPORTER (V.O.)
Officer Sam has since been released
from intensive care and suffers
from severe head trauma.
CUT TO:
A BLURRY ENLARGED PHOTO OF ISAAC -- TAKEN FROM THE CC FOOTAGE52.
52.
WORM REPORTER (V.O.)
Police are currently searching for
the suspect, a Dust Bunny who fled
the scene --
CUT TO:
EXT. STREET - ALLEYWAY - DAY
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
Isaac walks slower and slower.
CAMERA - LOW BATTERY
Isaac finally makes it to the nook.
He opens the book shelf, puts CAMERA in, closes the shelf --
CAMERA -- LOW BATTERY
CAMERA -- LOW BATTERY
CAMERA -- DEAD
TO BE CONTINUED...53.
53.
CUT TO:
HELICOPTER NEWS FOOTAGE -- ISAAC CAUGHT BY POLICE AND TAKEN
INTO CUSTODY
GUS TALKS TO HIM WHILE IN CUSTODY-- ISAAC SAYS CAMERA IS IN
HIS BOOK SHELF
GUS, CAMERA OP AND INTERVIEWER DO NOT KNOW WHAT HE MEANS BY
“BOOK SHELF”
GUS PREPS MICHELANGELO FOR COURT54.
54.
MICHELANGELO IS WITHDRAWING AND NEEDS MONEY FOR HEMOGOBLIN
FIX
MICHELANGELO DOES NOT COME TO COURT
ISAAC LOSES TRIAL
THREE YEARS PASS
WHILE EDITING A COMMERCIAL, INTERVIEWER REALIZES THAT THE
“BOOK SHELF” IS IN THE ALLEYWAY
INTERVIEWER FINDS CAMERA
THEY REVIEW THE FOOTAGE AND APPROACH GUS ABOUT APPEALING THE
CASE
GUS NO LONGER HAS LICENSE. THEY HIRE YOUNG GUN LAWYER
STEPHANIE
SECOND TRIAL
MICHELANGELO IS SOBER NOW. HE TESTIFIES. HE HAS BECOME A
POLITICIAN TO FOLLOW IN COUNCILLOR ADAM’S FOOTSTEPS.
ISAAC SEES THAT OFFICER SAM SUFFERS FROM COGNITIVE DAMAGE
WITH THE CAMERA FOOTAGE THE COURT CAN SEE THAT OFFICER SAM
WAS SPRAYING MICHELANGELO WITH EXCESSIVE FORCE
ISAAC’S SENTENCE IS REDUCED AND HE IS RELEASED FROM PRISON
HE GOES BACK TO NEIGHBOURHOOD - IT IS TOTALLY GENTRIFIED
ISAAC MEETS UP WITH EDMUND. EDMUND HAS NEW CARGO VAN. HE
STILL IS TRAPPED IN AN ENDLESS WORK CYCLE.
ISAAC GOES TO NEW CENTRAL LIBRARY. IT IS STILL NOT FINISHED
BEING BUILT.
ISAAC’S SCENARIO HAS NOT CHANGED.55.
55.
NEWS FOOTAGE -- HELICOPTER POV -- Isaac is surrounded by
police cars.
He has nowhere to run, but tries.
He is knocked to the ground with a baton, tazed.
He tries to escape.
CUT TO:
INT. JAIL - DAY
B CAMERA -- GUS’S POV -- wheels through metal detectors and
security.
Isaac sits on the other side of the phone booth.
He picks up the phone.56.
56.
GUS
I’m the only guy that can come
right now.
Isaac doesn’t saying anything. He looks exhausted.
GUS (CONT'D)
Just tell me where that footage is.
That’s our side of the story.
Without that we got nothing!
Isaac nods.
GUS (CONT'D)
Isaac, you got to give me
something! I’m doing everything I
can for you here but --
Isaac covers his head with his hands.
ISAAC
It’s in my book shelf, where I told
you.
GUS
What bookshelf? You got to tell me
where that footage is.
Isaac looks directly at B CAMERA --
ISAAC
IT’S IN MY BOOK SHELF.
A Guard comes and lets Gus know his time is up.
CUT TO:
INT. EDITING SUITE - DAY
B CAMERA -- Gus sits with Interviewer.
Interviewer watches footage in a dark studio.
Isaac keeps saying book shelf.
No one understands what Isaac means about his BOOK SHELF.
INT. GUS’S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Michaelangelo sits on the couch, eyes bloodshot.
Gus sits across from him.57.
57.
GUS
Walk us through October 3rd.
Michaelangelo looks up at the fan.
MICHELANGELO
Can you turn the fan off?
GUS
Relax kid. You’re gonna be fine. We
gotta practice this out though.
MICHELANGELO
That fan is driving me nuts.
GUS
(TO CAMERA)
Hit that switch there.
Michelangelo scratches the back of his neck, the inside of
his arm.
GUS (CONT'D)
Walk us through October 3rd.
MICHELANGELO
How am I supposed to remember that?
GUS
Walk us through October 3rd.
Michaelangelo squirms around.
GUS (CONT'D)
The day you got sprayed by the
cops.
MICHELANGELO
I was at the pawn shop ok? I jacked
the camera and used the money to
buy drugs.
GUS
Don’t talk about that.
MICHELANGELO
How much you guys giving me?
GUS
Fifty --58.
58.
MICHAELANGELO
Man, you gotta go higher than fifty
bucks, all this and a day in court
man? Come on.
GUS
Kid, you don’t go back on that.
MICHELANGELO
Man.
GUS
You want to go from the top? Fine.
Let’s go from the top.
MICHELANGELO
Man.
GUS
Do you solemnly swear to tell the
truth, the whole truth and nothing
but the truth, so help you G-d?
MICHELANGELO
I’m not making this up man!
GUS
You shut your damn mouth and answer
the questions you’re asked. Come
through on your word. State your
full name for the record.
MICHELANGELO
Michaelangelo.
GUS
And where do you live?
MICHELANGELO
No where in particular.
GUS
Uh huh. Occupation.
MICHELANGELO
Ya.
GUS
Occupation.
MICHELANGELO
Hemogobbler.
Gus shakes his head.59.
59.
GUS
And where were you on October
Third?
MICHELANGELO
I dunno.
GUS
And where were you on October
Third?
MICHELANGELO
Pawn shop. Stole that camera.
Pawned it. Bought drugs with it.
GUS
Uh huh. And what happened before
you allegedly stole the camera?
MICHELANGELO
Didn’t allegedly nothing. I’m
telling you I stole it.
GUS
Nobody cares. What happened when
the police arrived at the
restaurant.
MICHELANGELO
They fumigated me up with
insecticide. I told them to get the
hell out of there. And then Isaac
came and knocked that guy to the
ground.
Michaelangelo walks toward the cactus on the windowsill.
GUS
And do you see the person who
assaulted you anywhere in the
courtroom today?
MICHELANGELO
Huh?
GUS
When I say that you point to the
cop.
MICHELANGELO
Ok.60.
60.
GUS
Can I ask you why you came forward
in this case?
MICHELANGELO
He saved my life.
GUS
He saved your life?
MICHELANGELO
I owe him for that.
GUS
And who are you referring to
exactly?
MICHELANGELO
Isaac.
GUS
What was your prior relationship
with Isaac before this altercation?
MICHELANGELO
Didn’t know him much.
GUS
I see. So you wouldn’t have
considered him a friend?
MICHELANGELO
No.
GUS
Thank you Michelangelo, nothing
further.
Michelangelo touches the cactus.
INT. COURTROOM - DAY
B CAMERA -- Josephine, the Mantis lawyer Gus met earlier, and
Officer Sam sit at a table across from Isaac. Isaac wears an
orange jumpsuit.
A FULL JURY seated in the box. In the public gallery, several
reporters, reporters, a Chihuahua sketch artist.
The colossal JUDGE ALVINS, a Racoon enters from the chambers
and takes the bench.61.
61.
BAILIFF
All rise. District Court, Judge
Alvin M. Alvins presiding, is now
in session. All persons having
business before the court, draw
near and you shall be heard. Be
seated.
Everyone settles, including Judge Alvins.
ALVINS
In the matter of Squirrel versus
Dust Bunny, are we ready for
opening statements?
JOSEPHINE
Yes, your Honor, the plaintiffs are
ready to proceed.
GUS
Your Honor, the defense is ready.
ALVINS
Very well then.
ISAAC
(TO B CAMERA)
This is fucked.
ALVINS
(TO JURY)
It will be up to you to decide if
what the lawyers allege in these
statements is in fact proven during
the course of this trial. Mr.
Giuseppe, you have the floor.
Gus moves to a lectern that stands off the corner of the jury
box.
B CAMERA - close on faces of the Jury.
GUS
I’m not here to try to convince
ya’ll of nothing because this
here’s a case that isn’t anything
beyond the mere facts of what
happened on the day. Your point of
view -- well -- that’s for ya’ll to
decide, but while I got your
attention here I would like to take
a moment to reflect, on a story
from the past.
(MORE)
(MORE)62.
62.
GUS (CONT'D)
GUS (CONT'D)
One that most of you got to know
already -- about a desert Mouse
named Moses. Ya’ll know what I’m
talking about?
Well, this particular desert Mouse
was special in that he was the only
Mouse living in a kingdom of
Turtles, alright? In those days,
the temperature of your blood for
the most part, that’s what dictated
what you were entitled to, I know
we’d like to think things have
changed, but I’m not sure anyone
can truly believe that with a sound
mind.
Well anyway. Back to it -- one day,
our Moses Mouse was out doing
whatever he did at the time, and he
saw a Turtle beating down a slave,
a different Mouse, let’s call him
slave Mouse.
Moses Mouse looked around, and
there was no one to witness this
here incident except himself, no
one to help, no one to intervene.
So, what did he do? He went over
and struck that Turtle -- killing
him. Buried him in the sand.
And still somehow in the eye of the
alleged lord almighty, Moses Mouse
was now going to be the one to lead
the rest of them Slave Mice toward
their freedom.
Now let me tell you what I think
about that. I don’t bat an eyelash
thinking that he did the right
thing knocking that slave owner
out. Killing him even. Go ahead and
try to pretend that you don’t think
any different. But here’s where I
do take issue with that Moses Mouse
-- he tried to get away with it.
My client, he looked this way and
that and saw a lot of things,
including a damn film camera. But
without fear -- he acted, put his
own well being on the line, to save
a fellow citizen.
(MORE)
(MORE)63.
63.
GUS (CONT'D)
GUS (CONT'D)
The law gives a police officer the
right to use deadly force if he
believes he or his fellow officer
in is danger.
So what I’m asking is what right
does a citizen have if he or his
fellow citizen is in danger --
especially from those they are
meant to be protected from?
On JURY.
INT. COURTROOM - DAY
Officer Earl sits in the witness stand.
GUS
Officer Earl how long have you been
a police officer?
OFFICER EARL
Eight years.
GUS
And what is your duty as a police
officer?
OFFICER EARL
Excuse me?
GUS
What is your duty as a police
officer?
OFFICER EARL
To uphold the law.
GUS
Uh huh. Is it against the law to
film a police officer?
OFFICER EARL
No.
GUS
But you wanted that video tape
didn’t you?
OFFICER EARL
Would’a confiscated it in the first
place.64.
64.
GUS
To your knowledge was there any
other footage of you, recorded on
that same camera?
OFFICER EARL
Couldn’t be sure of much. To my
knowledge.
GUS
Uh huh. And what brought you to
that fast food restaurant? What
were you hoping to find?
OFFICER EARL
We got a call. A complaint.
Gus freezes.
GUS
Huh.
OFFICER EARL
Restaurant got us over there, on
account of someone or another out
harassing customers in there.
Disturbing the peace if you will.
INT. COURTROOM - DAY
The Turtle Employee from the fast food restaurant sits in the
witness stand.
JOSEPHINE
And why then, did you call the
police?
TURTLE EMPLOYEE
Well. We uh. We had an issue.
Which. Is. Uh. Which isn’t out the
ordinary. Necessarily. But. I. I
didn’t mean any disrespect! Really.
But -- he was causing trouble in
the restaurant.
JOSEPHINE
So you called the police for help?
TURTLE EMPLOYEE
He just wouldn’t leave. And we had
kids around and such.65.
65.
JOSEPHINE
I see. And since he wouldn’t leave
and was disturbing the customers
you called the police for help?
TURTLE EMPLOYEE
I did. I did yah.
JOSEPHINE
And they came and reprimanded him?
TURTLE EMPLOYEE
Uh huh.
ALVINS
Redirect Mr. Giuseppe?
GUS
No, your honor.
INT. COURTROOM - DAY
The Bailiff stands at the lectern.
BAILIFF
Your Honor, the plaintiffs call
Michelangelo Greensberg to the
witness stand.
The Chihuahua Sketch Artist looks down the hall.
Members of The Jury mumble, fidget. It’s becoming clear that
nobody is coming.
The Bailiff clears his throat.
BAILIFF (CONT'D)
State calls Michelangelo Greensberg
to your Honour.
Still nothing --
ALVINS
Very well.
Gus covers his eyes with his hands.
INT. COURTROOM - DAY
Isaac sits in the witness stand.66.
66.
JOSEPHINE
Isaac, may I ask, whereabouts you
live?
He doesn’t respond.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
Is it fair to say you’re homeless?
Isaac breaks eye contact.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
Isaac?
He won’t look at her.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
Is it fair to say that you’re
experiencing homelessness?
GUS
Objection!
ALVINS
Overruled.
JOSEPHINE
Isaac. Is it fair to say you’re
homeless?
He shrugs.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
How long have you been homeless,
Isaac?
Nothing.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
What about your last known address?
Nothing.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
May I ask how you got to be
homeless, Isaac?
Isaac shrugs.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
Isaac, can you talk about the
evening of October 6th?
Isaac raises an eyebrow.67.
67.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
Sometimes when certain people
realize -- sometimes when certain
people believe that they have --
special abilities -- they see
themselves as above the law,
perhaps you could speak to that?
Josephine paces away from the lectern and toward the Jury
box.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
One could argue that you’ve taken
the roll of a vigilante. Do you see
yourself this way Isaac?
Nothing.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
Do you see yourself as a hero
Isaac?
He slumps his head down.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
You were the subject of a movie,
surely there must be a hero in ever
movie, no?
He seems to perk up a bit.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
Why do you think you were the
chosen subject of this documentary?
ISAAC
Well we became friends.
JOSEPHINE
Oh?
Isaac shrugs.
JOSEPHINE (CONT'D)
No further questions your Honor.
INT. COURTROOM - DAY
Josephine addresses the Jury.68.
68.
JOSEPHINE
This case is not about a hero. We
are not talking about some archaic,
mythological leader of Mice.
We are talking about a man who is
incapable of taking responsibility
for his actions. Of what happened
on the night of October 3rd. This
is not the desert, this is our
society, and nobody here is above
the law.
This case is about Officer Samuel
Washington, a man who had done his
job in trying to uphold that law.
But at the hands of a vigilante,
Officer Washington will suffer
irreparable brain injury for the
rest of his life. To be frank, I’m
truly baffled by what absurd
argument could even be made that
the defendant could be considered
innocent by any stretch of the
imagination.
Are we going to give a man who
clearly has no cognizant
understanding of his surroundings
and no ability to take
responsibility for his actions, the
power to uphold the law above our
very own police force?
INT. COURTROOM - DAY
B - CAMERA on Judge Alvins.
ALVINS
Has the jury reached a verdict?
JURY
Yes we have your honour.
Jury Member hands a piece of paper to the Bailiff.
BAILIFF
We the jury, duly empanelled and
sworn in the case of Squirrel
Versus Dust Bunny upon our oaths do
find in favor of plaintiff Officer
Samuel Washington.69.
69.
The court becomes noisy with chatter.
Isaac slumps in his chair.
Gavel bangs.
EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - DAY
TITLE: THREE YEARS LATER
The yellow building is not finished. Perhaps about a third of
the way there.
INT. EDITING SUITE - DAY
C CAMERA turns on.
Talks to client about it something stupid. He sees some kind
of Gummy Bear or thing that reminds him of Isaac.
He stops paying attention and says he needs to call Client
back.
He calls Camera Op.
INTERVIEWER
Hey man. Ya. Where’s that footage
from when Isaac and Gus talked.
He’s moving C CAMERA frantically.
Camera Op tells him where it is.
FOOTAGE of Isaac talking to Gus --
ISAAC
BOOK SHELF.
EXT. STREET - DAY
Every shop on the block is sleek, colorful, pointless.
A Seahorse and a Pony drink to-go coffee and push a baby
stroller. A Mink eats gelato. An Antelope and Penguin in
spandex leggings, carry yoga mats.
Interviewer goes to the alleyway.
There’s an entire shop there now. It is no longer an
alleyway.70.
70.
It’s restaurant.
He finds the nook.
He pulls the wall out.
And there is it.
CAMERA.
The empty Gummy Bear package is still there.
EXT. JAIL - DAY
CAMERA blurs in and out of focus. It zooms out from barbed
wire spun above a towering fence.
Isaac holds his hand up, covering his eyes from the sun.
CAMERA toward him. His hair is cut short. He is older and
wears a colorful wind breaker.
EXT. STREET - DAY
CAMERA - following Isaac through the neighbourhood. As the
yuppies dwindle the buildings become decrepit, abandoned.
Overflowing heaps of garbage line the gutters. A smashed TV,
destroyed shelving units, cracked kitchen table, a melted
refrigerator.
A Raccoon tosses a bottle into the middle of the road. Tarps
and tents cluster around the corner. A young Kangaroo sells a
dime bag to a Frog.
A Snake and a Grasshopper yell at each other. The Grasshopper
punches the Snake in the face, a fight breaks out.
A cargo van pulls up.
Isaac goes up to him.
EDMUND
What you saying man?
Edmund gets out.
Edmund hits the side of the cargo van. He proudly slides open
the side door. The van is souped up to organize bottles.
There’s a mattress, a hot plate, a sink.71.
71.
EDMUND (CONT'D)
All on my own. No help from no one.
The knock fists.
EXT. OUTREACH CENTER - DAY
CAMERA wide on the Outreach Center -- a bright seafoam green
beacon. Isaac stands outside of it. His hands in the pockets
of his windbreaker.
EXT. BUS STOP - DAY
Following Isaac past the bus stop.
A Squirrel is inside the bus shelter. He’s wrapped in a
sleeping bag.
It’s Officer Sam. He inaudibly mutters to himself, staring
blankly.
Isaac stops. CAMERA stops.
Officer Sam faintly smiles but does not make eye contact.
Officer Sam’s muttering continues.
It’s unclear if Officer Sam even knows Isaac or the camera
are even there.
EXT. OUTREACH CENTER - DAY
Officer Sam drags his sleeping bag down the sidewalk,
continuing to mutter to himself.
Isaac holds his hand out to slow oncoming traffic as he
guides Officer Sam across the street, towards the Outreach
Center.
INT. OUTREACH CENTER - DAY
A faded wooden mural of a shining sun is built into the
reception booth.
Amanda sits at the desk, surrounded by binders, file folders
and the like.
CAMERA to Officer Sam. Amanda comes over to him.72.
72.
AMANDA
(TO OFFICER SAM)
Hey, I’m Amanda. Are you looking
for somewhere to stay?
Officer Sam stares blankly, still muttering.
Amanda leads Officer Sam down the hall. Isaac stops them.
ISAAC
Hey. I uh -- I wanted you to have
this man.
Isaac hands Officer Sam the Gummy Bear package.
ISAAC (CONT'D)
It’s about -- in case anyone
doesn’t see you.
Amanda is confused by what Isaac means. Officer Sam takes the
package, squeezes it in his hand tightly.
CAMERA - close on Isaac.
AMANDA
(TO ISAAC)
You alright?
Isaac doesn’t respond, he stares the Gummy Bear package in
Officer Sam’s fist. Amanda puts her hand on Isaac’s shoulder.
AMANDA (CONT'D)
You ok?
Isaac nods.
EXT. NEW CENTRAL LIBRARY - DAY
Isaac stands at the foot of New Central Library, looking
upward at its abstract and fragmented shape.
The building seems to contradict it’s own structural
integrity by virtue of its deeply asymmetrical, impossibly
complex design.
People from all walks of life enter and exit through the
sprawling glass doors.
Isaac looks back at Interviewer and Camera Op. He nods his
head, looking equally humbled and dubious.73.
73.
INT. NEW CENTRAL LIBRARY - DAY
Isaac carefully looks through the shelves. He hops up onto a
stool and takes an oversized coffee table book off the top
shelf.
He clunks the book down onto the stool and flips through the
massive pages -- eventually landing on a photograph of the
Old Central Library, taken back from when it was new.
FADE OUT.






































new book
SUNSET OIL PLUS
ASDFJFASLKDFJ
THE BOOK OF SEYMOUR
THE DYBBUK OF BETH SHEOL
LOTUSPOND, EARTHSUNSET OIL PLUS
An endless string of power lines follow along the highway.
Sparse dirt and dust fade into either direction, there are no
clouds or wind and the stillness has locked the horizon into
place.
During nighttime, oﬀ in the background a faint glow
flickers above a white ray of light, which hangs for a moment
before fading oﬀ.
The stillness returns until a blurred vortex rips into the
foreground and clips a power line, sparks spew and the shape
of the blur negotiates its path in chaos before disappearing
again.
A small burst of sparks pop from the injured power line
and sprinkle onto the asphalt and by day the landscape returns
to what it was.
From a more broad vantage point there is a highway side
gas station that overlooks all that’s been noticed.
The station display shows the price of regular, diesel and a
logo for the Sunset Oil Plus -- a smiling sun who wears
sunglasses.
Such a logo has faded, incrementally by the abundance of
light that punish its relentless enthusiasm and the lightbulb in
restroom is faint.
Strips of duct tape cross over a urinal of cracked ceramic
and murky limescale. Pink goo glugs from a plastic bottle and
overflows a soap dispenser.
Bob-Douglas, a big man with a long beard, scrubs the
excess soap with a rag until the soap dispenser breaks oﬀ the
wall and the jagged plastic slices his hand and he says, “mother
fuck” and slams his fist against the adjacent stall. The man is
not unlike others that he has known and he holds a paper
towel over his hand and the bathroom key dangles from his
back pocket. He walks towards the fuel pumps and looks outonto the road to the clear view of the empty desert and the
never ending string of power lines that follow along the
highway.
He rakes through the dirt until he leans the rake against
the side of the shed and goes inside and the power lines hum.
Bob-Douglas returns from the shed with a clipboard and goes
to each filling pump, copies down the levels and then back
into the booth to put the clipboard away.
As he rakes out the footprints he’s made a big red and
silver tanker truck comes from up the road and it lays on the
horn as it comes into the station and scatters the rake lines to
oblivion.
The tanker truck pulls in and cuts the engine and the
driver steps out, who is Teddy, and is older than Bob-Douglas
and has a longer beard and a bigger stomach and a bigger hat
and a thicker bundle of keys.
Apologize for messing up them lines.
That’ll go ahead and give me something to work on
afterward, says Bob-Douglas who drags a transfer hose from
the behind shed and Teddy brushes oﬀ the crumbs of cheese
puﬀs with a couple overflowing handfuls of bits and bites.
Teddy takes a stack of photographs from the front pocket
of his t-shirt, removes the paperclip that holds them together
and flips through them and is eager to show Bob-Douglas,
who goes back into the shed and comes back with a drill that
he uses to unbolt what is a lid from the ground and secures the
transfer hose in its place and Teddy hops back up in into the
cab and then flips a switch on the dash. The lid on the top/
back of the tank pops open.
Bob-Douglas comes back out of the shed popping a few
candy frogs into his mouth. He takes the other end of the tube
with one hand and uses the other to climb the ladder on the
side of the truck and locks it in.The fuel transfers from the tank to the station reserve and
it’s loud and Bob-Douglas wipes sweat oﬀ his forehead.
TAKE A LOOK AT THESE, says Teddy and he hands
Bob-Douglas the photographs from his pocket and Bob-
Douglas takes them and looks at them all, they are time shares
in Florida.
Each picture is an exterior of a home and they each have a
diﬀerent special selling feature, a pond with lily pads or
umbrella chairs
THAT ONE GOT MY EYE, says Teddy and Bob-
Douglas takes it in, BUT WENDY ASSURED ME THIS
HERE IS THE ONE, Teddy points to the next photo in the
stack, which is an oceanside property and there is a white
smear in the corner of the photo.
WHAT’S THAT, asks Bob-Douglas.
BIRD FLOWN IN FRONT THE CAMERA LENS.
Bob-Douglas looks closer at the smear, trying to make out the
bird.
I SUPPOSE THEY DIDN’T KNOW THAT
HAPEPEND UNTIL THEY GET THE PHOTOS BACK.
Teddy, THAT’S RIGHT.
YOU SURE IT’S NOT A LIGHT LEAK?
IT’S A BIRD.
SOMETIMES WHEN THE CAMERA ISN’T SEALED
UP RIGHT THE LIGHT GETS IN THERE AND IT
LOOKS LIKE THAT. FOLKS GO AROUND THINKING
THEY SEEN GHOSTS AND FLYING SAUCERS AND
THE LIKE...
REALTOR TOLD ME BIRD CRAPPED ON HIM.
YOU KNOW ANY GHOSTS OR FLYING SAUCERS
GOT A REASON TO GO TAKIN A CRAP ON MY
REALTOR?
MIGHTA BEEN A BIRD THEN.TOLD ME THAT’S GOOD LUCK. GETTING
CRAPPED ON BY A BIRD. SAY ANYTHING TO SELL
YOU ON IT.
Bob Douglas flips through another couple photos of
similar homes and then comes across a beat up trading card of
a pinup girl of sorts.
THAT’S WENDY. NEVER A MOMENT GOES BY I’M
NOT THINKING OF HER.
SHE LIKES THE BIRD CRAP ONE?
THAT’S RIGHT.
Teddy takes back the photos and cycles through them
himself before he puts the paper clip back on and stuﬀs them
back into his t-shirt pocket.
Teddy, REAL FORTUNATE TO HAVE ENOUGH
CASH TO THINK ON GETTING A PLACE LIKE THAT
BUT TRUTH IS IT AIN’T WORTH MUCH IF SHE
DON’T COME ALONG.
THOUGHT YOU MEANT SHE WAS COMING.
IT’S TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE. THROWS ME OFF.
KEEP THINKING SHE’LL GET COLD FEET. IF I’M
BEING HONEST WITH HER I’M GONNA HAVE TO
ASK HER TO GET MARRIED. NEVER WAS MUCH
THE MARRIAGE TYPE TILL I MET HER.
Bob-Douglas, YOU GOTTA ASK HER.
IT MIGHT GIVE HER COLD FEET.
SHE’LL BE HAPPY TO HEAR IT.
TRUTH IS I’M NOT HER ONLY CUSTOMER YOU
KNOW.
I SEE.
Bob-Douglas oﬀers Teddy a candy frog. Teddy takes it.
I DO FIND MYSELF WONDERING WHAT IT
MIGHT’A BEEN LIKE HAD I GONE FOR A LINE OF
WORK THAT DIDN’T HAVE ME GOING AROUND
THIS STATE TO ANOTHER EVERY DAY BUT THISKIND OF LIFE’S JUST WHAT I KNOW. AND HER
KIND OF LIFE ... THAT’S WHAT SHE KNOWS. IT’S
NON TRADITIONAL WHAT WE HAVE GOING IN
THAT WAY AND I’M NOT SURE WHAT MY MA
WOULD HAVE MENTIONED ABOUT HER LINE OF
WORK BUT EITHER WAY I THINK SHE WOULD
KNOW THAT I DO LOVE WENDY. AND IF SHE KNEW
THAT SHE WOULDN'A QUESTIONED NOTHING --
The sound of the gas pump remains.
A woman, Michelle climbs through the bedroom window
and there is a light that she climbs towards and she floats
outside the window.
Teddy, WHAT I MEAN IS THAT LOVE IS LOVE ONE
WAY OR ANOTHER. PLAIN AND ORDINARY. YOU
KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
Michelle drops from the window, into the yard.
Bob-Douglas, YA.
CATCH MYSELF THINKING ABOUT THAT
WENDY JUST ABOUT EVERY MINUTE OF EVERY
DAY. REALIZE AFTER A WHILE THE PEOPLE YOU
LOVE... THEY BECOME A PART OF YOU. AND WHEN
IT’S REAL BAD YOU GET A CERTAIN FEELING THAT
YOU MIGHT GO AND EXPLODE...
Teddy points to Bob-Douglas, in the chest and says,
IT’S NOT THE HEART LIKE PEOPLE SAY. IN
ACTUALITY IT’S RIGHT THERE IN THE SOLAR
PLEXUS ... IT GROWS TO THE INFINITE. THAT’S
WHAT IT IS. He winds Bob-Douglas, just enough for him to
understand.And Bob-Douglas comes from the shed with more candy,
frogs, gummy worms and vampire teeth and he hands an
assortment to Teddy and they stand and eat the candy until
Teddy nudges Bob-Douglas and says, YOU SEE THAT?
SEE WHAT?
Teddy points, YOU SEE IT.
Bob-Douglas looks and he doesn’t see it and says, NO.
And still, Teddy points, and Bob-Douglas says OH and
sees the power line is on fire and says NEVER SEEN THAT
BEFORE. They both stare until Bob-Douglas goes to the
phone and dials a number.
UH HUH, YA. DOING IT NOW. TELL YOU WHAT,
A BIT OF AN ISSUE ON THE HORIZON HERE. YA.
MEANTIME. OK THEN.
that feel loud in their flickering.
OK. POWERLINE CROSS THE WAY CAUGHT A SPARK
LOOKS LIKE. CAN YOU HEAR ME? POWERLINE
CROSS THE WAY CAUGHT A SPARK. RIGHT. YOU
GOT IT THEN? MIGHT NOT HEAR THE RING WITH
THE PUMP GOING BUT WE’RE ALRIGHT IN THE
Bob-Douglas hangs up and goes over to stand with Teddy
and they stand and watch the fire.
Michelle, lays in the cot in a psych ward and reads her
bible. There is a cast on each one of her legs and she looks up
at the window in the corner and there is a view of the stars,
A service truck drives slowly, down the highway, it’s
blinking yellow lights flash.
Bob-Douglas, YOU EVER WATCH THEM OUTER
SPACE SHOWS?
Teddy, ALL MY LIFE.
The service truck parks a safe distance away from the
flaming power line.Bob-Douglas, WHATEVER’S COMING IN FROM
ABOVE THE CLOUDS THERE... IF YOU SAW IT ON
TV SHOWS OR READ ABOUT IT IN THE BIBLE...
DON’T MAKE A DIFFERENCE EITHER WAY.
Bob-Douglas and Teddy walk a few feet so they can see the
service truck better.
Teddy, AND?
The service truck parks and the Technician gets out and
stares at it.
Bob-Douglas, WHAT I FIND MYSELF BELIEVING IS
LIKE WHAT YOU SAID BEFORE. NONE OF IT MEANS
MUCH UNLESS SHE’S THERE WITH YOU.
And inside the psych ward, in the recreation room, the
sound of the gas pump remains and Bob-Douglas sits at a
round table. Someone had been working on a puzzle but it
looks like the pieces are a collage of diﬀerent puzzles and
Michelle reads from the bible and Bob-Douglas sits with her
and behind them all of the other patients who are engaged in
some kind of group dance lesson and Winston, who is big and
has little hair comes to Michelle and taps her on the shoulder
and she ignores him and Winston asks Michelle something,
but the sound of the gas pump remains, to dance presumably
and he points to the others and Michelle won’t join so
Winston asks again but what she says this time makes him
buzz oﬀ.
And still the gas pump remains and Bob-Douglas and
Michelle sit across from the Doctor, who explains something
and Bob-Douglas and Michelle and the Doctor seems
empathetic to them and Michelle sits at the rec room table and
she tries to read her bible but she isn’t as focused as she was
before.BOB-DOUGLAS arrives with a plastic bag and he puts it
on the table and tears it open and the heat comes from the
takeout container and Michelle eats a steaming broccoli piece
and waves her hand in front of her mouth to cool it down and
Bob-Douglas does the same thing and she smacks him because
she doesn’t understand why he went to eat a piece after she
just burned her mouth on how it was.
The Technician takes some tools from the back of his
truck.
And Michelle in her wheelchair is brought down the hallway
and Bob-Douglas follows her along until she goes into the
room and the nurses stop Bob-Douglas from entering the
room.
He goes to the pole and climbs it and Teddy looks at Bob-
Douglas and Bob-Douglas back to Teddy and they are
concerned and they watch the Technician who has become
close to the fire and he clips a line
And Bob-Douglas he can see inside through the window in
the door and Michelle is being attached to an electro
convulsive machine and Bob-Douglas waits in the hallway and
watches the light flash and electrocute in the space underneath
the bottom of the door and the ground.
The line sparks and the Technician is blasted from the pole
and he hits the ground, motionless and the flame spreads oﬀ
the severed line and Bob-Douglas and Teddy run down the hill
to him.
And Bob-Douglas and Michelle sit at the same table and
the bible is in front of her is closed and Winston asks her to
join in with the group who is learning the roundabout danceand her eyes are she doesn’t hesitate to join in with them this
time.
Bob-Douglas pushes her over to where the others are and
he parks the chair and goes to wait on the sidelines and she
seems amused by the movement of those who surround her.
Teddy and Bob-Douglas drag the TECHNICIAN out of the
fire.
Bob-Douglas’s station uniform gets lit up and they drop
the Technician. Teddy helps him stamp out his uniform and
they drag the Technician up the hill, away from the fire.
And eventually the sun returns and Bob-Douglas drives to
the psych ward but Michelle is gone, perhaps through the
window.






















THE BOOK OF SEYMOUR
I
Seymour with big ears and Arnold also with big ears.
Gloves?
Yup.
It is early and the landfill has opened. The car is packed
full, a vanity and dresser strapped to the roof.
Grab the other end.
They will toss the dresser from the roof and it will smash
onto the ground. Seymour finds a grip in the wood, his hand
is small. Arnold holds the opposite corner.
Hey Dad?
Yup.
What if she comes back?
Not going to happen son. Ready?
They toss the dresser and it floats through the air and —
The car is unloaded and speeds down the highway. The
radio is not on and Seymour has opened the window and the
cold air comes in. There are dirt lots and fences and Arnold
has no speech prepared for Seymour.
We’ll have to tough it out, not sure what else we can do
here, Seymour.
Seymour watches the blur from the window.
But I’ll tell you one thing son, I sure as hell won’t turn my
back on you.
Seymour sees the dirt and the road. His posture
straightens.
Alright?
Seymour nods.
Ok. Me too Dad.II
The parking lot of the Jewish Community Center —
Arnold and Seymour face the wall, towards a swastika and die
kikes both painted in excrement.
Arnold enraged, Seymour following him into the building
where Gail the receptionist sits and Arnold looks for Gary
who appears and is the maintenance person and Arnold tells
him to get the mop and clean the shit oﬀ now before the
daycare arrives.
What shit?
What shit? The fucking swastika on the side of the
building.
Seymour watches a moment of stillness between Arnold,
Gail and Gary.
Gale jogs outside, towards the wall and looks at the
excrement. A woman, unaware, takes a stroller from her car
and Gale waves at her before jogging back inside. She picks up
the phone and Arnold asks her who she is calling.
The police.
We can deal with it ourselves, Gary’s getting the mop.
We need to call the police.
I’ll call them later.
Gary pushes the mop bucket and Arnold tells Seymour to
help him with the door and Seymour rushes over.
The mop bucket rumbles over the sidewalk, the suds splash
and warble and children who are younger than Seymour enter
the parking lot and they are accompanied by their mothers.
Gary ties a handkerchief around his face and Arnold grabs the
mop and smears the swastika into the brick and as the mop
water darkens, Seymour hides his nose under his shirt.
Arnold tells someone to fuck oﬀ and slams the phone
down and he is in his oﬃce and there is Igor, the treasurer, a
tall man with round black eyes and a trembling voice.The phone will ring again and Arnold will pick it up and
his throat will be thick with anger and he will tell someone
else that if they don’t like the way he does things they can
come down and talk face to face and he’ll give them a piece of
his mind.
Igor will nod along and stare, indiscriminately shaking his
head.
Arnold hangs up the phone and slumps in his chair.
There is silence — until Igor says he knows who did it and
he’ll tell him exactly who it was.
Arnold looks at him.
Her name is Sue Huang, a well known and respected
prostitute. Hal Greene paid her forty bucks to do the swastika
and another ten for the text. He beat oﬀ and watched her,
which cost him an extra fifty. So he’s a hundred in the hole.
Arnold tries not to laugh.
Hal Greene takes a shit every time he ejaculates. So here’s
the real question.
What’s that?.
Arnold takes his coat from the hanger
Whose shit was it?
Seymour pushes through the trees and finds Vlad, his
friend, who is much bigger than he is and they will brawl until
they are worn out and they will sit on the curb and Vlad will
say that he went to David’s apartment and that he lay in
David’s bed and Seymour can see this weighs heavy on his
shoulders.
Which David?
Vlad shrugs.
From school?
No.
From the cafeteria?Eventually Vlad will go home and Seymour will sit and
wait and consider what his friend has told him.
Arnold and Igor sit with the board of directors, who
express their concern about the upcoming Rosh Hashanah
service.
Hal says, perhaps it isn’t the best idea, considering…
Stuart says it’s the Palestinians.
That’s got nothing to do with it, Stuart, you moron. We
aren’t rescheduling on account of some bullshit like this.
Fine. Let there be a vote.
–– Arnold and Igor are outvoted.
Seymour sits in the cafeteria and watches David, who
scrubs the inside of the display case.
Seymour orders a cookie and a hot dog. And David tells
Seymour that the breaker, between the toaster and the
dishwasher, is shot and asks him if he will go to the basement
and switch it back. Seymour waits and notices David is doing
nothing and takes a knife.
There is a frayed cable hanging from the ceiling and they
open the gate, where the breaker is and Seymour, with the
knife in his sleeve steps into the darkness.
Past the neighbourhood strip mall Arnold asks Seymour if
he had dinner and Seymour mentions that guy tried getting
him into the breaker room and he brought a knife, because of
what Vlad said.
What’s wrong with the breaker?
Had to flip it.
You went with David?
And Seymour shows him the knife.Arnold nods and they park in the driveway and inside the
house the carpet is still flattened from where the furniture had
been.
And Arnold checks on Seymour a second time and
Seymour sleeps.
And in the morning Arnold makes beans and eggs and
toast and extra sandwiches for Seymour to take.
And the next day Arnold goes to Gary and asks if there is
an issue with the breaker and Gary says that no, there is no
problem with the breaker.
Which one is the kitchen?
Gary searches through the listing and points to it.
Arnold flips it oﬀ and Igor stands guard at the till in the
kitchen.
And Arnold goes to David and asks him if there is an issue
with the breaker and David says that no, there is no problem
with the breaker.
Well Dave, hearing you had some issues with the power
here.
Overloading the breaker every now and again. That’s
what.
Arnold looks at frying pan, it is worn and steel and he
asks David if it is a good pan.
And David tells him that it is a good pan.
Great. And tell me then Dave, what’s overloading the
breaker?
It’s the toaster and the hoodfan.
That’s a problem isn’t it.
Uh huh.
And what are we doing overloading the breaker, Dave?
What?
You got a problem Dave?
With what?Something going on with your head?
Nope. No.
I see. Ok —
Arnold hits David across the skull with the frying pan and
it hurts his wrist and he adjusts his grip for the next swing.
You come anywhere near this fucking place, for the rest of
your life, I’ll kill you mother fucker.
David has blood on his face.
Arnold takes the toaster above his head and lays it onto
David and drags him by the scruﬀ and tosses him at the back
door, where Igor drags him outside.
Igor picks David oﬀ of the road and dusts him oﬀ and
punches him across the face, knocking him down again and
Arnold stomps on David’s teeth and there is the Rabbi and the
members of the community center, watching and Arnold asks,
Anyone have anything to say? Speak up then.
But they say nothing.
Call the fucking cops for all I give a fuck but I’m not
waiting around for that shit. We’ll deal with things ourselves,
how about that? And if anyone knowns anyone looking for a
job — we’re going to need a new cook around here.
Igor picks David up and Arnold takes his legs and they
toss him oﬀ the property and onto the road into traﬃc and a
car swerves and honks.
Another board meeting is called and Arnold says if anyone
has a problem with how he’s done things they can try to
outvote him and they can call the police and the papers and
they can ask themselves, if there is one thing that could
warrant his behaviour what could it be?
Eli argues that nothing warrants that kind of violence in
the community.Arnold tells him to get the fuck out and Eli is cast from
the parking lot, exiled, never to return, and no one else
responds.
During the Rosh Hashanah service there was no threat, or
bomb and there was Arnold and Igor and Seymour.III
Leah, turning thirteen, wears a kerchief and long sleeves
and a skirt that cover her knees.
There are men who look at her and she avoids looking at
them and down the hallway is Gary who says howdy and
careful your step and she does not respond and avoids his eye
like the rest, and carries a milk crate filled with baking
supplies from the basement towards the kitchen.
Where women, much older than her, make challah bread
and are dressed similarly to her. Leah divides the baking
supplies from her milk crate, to the tables and sneaks a parcel
of multi colored sprinkles into her apron pocket.
Leah coats her challah in a sugar glaze and pours the
sprinkles overtop and is scolded by Hannah, who is her
cousin.
Do you want to play games? Is this Leah’s nudnik cafe?
Hannah throws Leah’s challah into the garbage and the
other women clean their stations and eventually when they
ready themselves to leave, Leah sneaks her sprinkle challah
from the garbage and hides it into her bag.
Seymour, older now by a few years, with his gym bag,
passes Leah who looks towards the parking lot.
Both are avoidant in their willingness to make eye contact
and both are avoidant in their willingness to speak but as they
pass one another Seymour stops and asks her something, he
mutters and the words are unclear but Leah understands and
she takes the sprinkle challah and gives it to him and says it
was in the garbage but I got it back.
A set of headlights appear against Leah’s eyes and she sees
a minivan, which belongs to her father and it pulls into the
parking lot.
Do you want it? And she oﬀers him the sprinkle challah.
You don’t want it?I gotta go. Do you want it or not?
Ok. Seymour receives the challah and is pleased,
enamoured and watches Leah rush towards the minivan and
enter through the sliding door, all seven seats taken by her
father and brothers who speak rapidly, overtop of one
another, in Yiddish and none acknowledge Leah, who sits on
the ground.
Arnold and Igor sit across from one another at a window-
side table. Igor stares indiscriminately, lost in thought. Arnold
reads the newspaper and sips a coﬀee. Igor slams his fist on the
table.
Patti Swizlowsky... Patti Swizlowsky...
Quiet down.
Patti Swizlowsky from the second floor... she bangs on my
door this morning at the crack of dawn and says -- Hey Igor, I
need fifty bucks -- I say to her, fifty bucks? Not a chance -- She
says to me
-- Igor, you senile old bastard, Patti Swizlowsky’s been
dead for years...
Explain this then -- if Patti Swizlowsky’s dead -- how’s it
that every bastard on the second floor has ended up in line at
the clinic with a case of HIV? Well I’ll tell you how. Those
shameless shmucks couldn’t keep from jamming their pricks
up a dead woman’s ass!
Arnold bursts out laughing but Igor takes this seriously,
disgraceful.
And Seymour waits for the heavens to split but sees
nothing in the sky and Leah looks in the water that comes
from the sink and sees nothing.Arnold and Igor leave the restaurant and walk to the JCC.
Arnold and Igor walk through the lobby where Stuart hovers
around the front desk.
Hey, Stuart. Says Igor.
What?
Stay oﬀ the second floor.
I live on the second floor.
That’s all I’m saying, you can thank me later.
Stuart looks confused.
Oh, and good riddance to Patti Swizlowsky.
Ya, what about her?
I heard they didn’t have the equipment at the doc’s oﬃce
to tie her damn tubes -- they had to send her to a specialist.
They referred her to the damn vet!
Arnold says, will you shut your mouth about Patti
Swizlowsky?
Igor does a hail mary as they walk into the board room
where Hal, Bruno and Eli are crowded around the table. Hal
passes Arnold a stack of papers. Arnold mutters as he reads.
What’s this about chlorine in the swimming pool?
They want more chlorine in the swimming pool.
Says who?
Donna Silver.
Donna Silver? She’d need a bucket of chlorine to herself to
clear that old yeast infected cunt --
--Igor. Quiet.
...Donna Silver. The aqua-fit coach. She’s requested more
in the pool.
Fine.
Arnold signs a piece of paper and flips to another.
Bruno, go let Stuart in. He’s pacing around the lobby like
a schmuck.
Does he have business?
Just bring him in.Bruno gets Stuart from the lobby. Stuart enters sheepishly.
Stuart, get in here. You’re making everyone nervous. What
is it?
I have a request -- but I wanted to wait and ask you in
private.
Just spit it out.
Stuart looks around the room dubiously. He pulls a piece
of paper from his pocket.
I’ve written an article that I want to submit for
publication in the weekly newsletter.
Arnold waves for it to be brought to him. He reads the
headline and tosses it. You think our community needs this
trash? Nobody wants to see your anti-Muslim propaganda.
The hell they don’t! I’m telling you Arnold, I’ve read their
scriptures, they’ll kill us all! It’s all over the TV -- they strap
bombs to their own children!
Stuart, you sick fuck, you better learn to keep your prick
out of Patti Swizlowsky’s ass, and tell that aquafit coach that
chlorine won’t cure her HIV!
I’m just writing what’s on everyone’s mind Arnold, it’s
the truth and everyone in this room knows it! If we don’t do
something about those Jihadists --
-- Get out Stuart. Show some respect. Bruno, get him out
of here.
Bruno puts his hand on Stuarts shoulder and walks him
out. Arnold shakes his head.
Igor says, unbelievable.
Arnold, he has a point.
What point?
Maybe we need security. Some videos cameras and a guard,
you saw what happened in Vancouver.
We can deal with it ourselves. We’re not doing it.
Arnold. We have to.
We aren’t showing that we’re scared.They will vote. And the vote says that they will do it.
Well go fuck yourselves it’s not going to happen.
It’s a democracy.
Arnold shrugs.
Does anyone else want this job? Boris? Hal?
No. No.
So you’ve got a problem?
I don’t know.
So fuck oﬀ then.
And Leah kneads dough and Seymour stands in the
hallway and asks for her, to which she tries to ignore and
Seymour is scolded, but returns, again and the following day
until Leah wipes her hands on her apron and goes to him and
tells him to stop coming to the kitchen and Hannah tells him
to leave.
Later staring at his feet, with his gym bag, Leah pushes
Seymour against the wall and kisses him and leaves towards
the minivan, to which Seymour is dough eyed.
And Seymour stands with Leah and eats the rugelach that
she’d made. He asks for another and asks why she is young
when the rest of them are old.
My mom is dead so I need cooking lessons.
To which Seymour does not respond, but Leah can see
that he has an understanding.
And Leah keeps looking out the window, and does not
look to the heavens, instead to the road.
You should go before my Dad gets here.
But Seymour continues to stand.
Until she says again and pushes him away and goes to the
minivan.And in the night Seymour rustles past the brick to Leah’s
yard and props himself up and peaks into the window where
Leah’s brother sleeps and Seymour finds another window,
where Leah is and she opens the window and whispers to him,
Seymour you better catch me. I don’t want to fall into those
bushes, they’re prickly.
To which Seymour says that he will catch her and she
hops down and Seymour catches her and she does not fall.
Leah and Seymour sit in the night, by a pond and a
reservoir and eat a granola bar which is not kosher, to which
Leah will no longer eat, but their hands touch and Seymour
too stops chewing and they kiss and Leah says that she had
initiated the kiss despite the granola bar.
And Seymour and Leah wait for the minivan to arrive.
And she gives him black and white cookies and pushes him
away and that night he will come past the brick to her
window again and this time she pulls him towards the
window, into her bedroom where she takes her top oﬀ and in
the morning Seymour sneaks through the prickly bushes.
And Leah throws up into the toilet and lays on the ground
and closes her eyes until her brother bangs against the door
repeatedly because he has to piss and Leah says, piss on
outside, be pricked by the bushes and fuck oﬀ!
And Leah peels beets amongst the others in the kitchen.
And there is something diﬀerent to her, and the women crowd
together and sense her glow and they try to speak to her and
ask but she will not say anything and is embarrassed until
eventually Leah confides to Hannah that she may have a child
inside of her and her hands are red with beets.And Hannah speaks to Leah’s father and in the field while
Seymour searches through the trees and waits for the heavens
to open he is approached by Leah’s brothers and they will kill
him if he goes towards Leah again and Seymour goes to wait
where Leah waited for the headlights, with the challah and the
rugelach and the black and white cookie and she is not there
and the headlights are not there and he goes to the kitchen
class and she is not there and he goes around the prickly
bushes to the window and Leah is there and she begs him to
leave but he will not and she says that her brothers will kill
him but he refuses to leave and Leah’s brothers come and
Seymour fights and cannot beat them all.
And again Seymour goes to see Leah but -- she has left,
with her cousin and Seymour did not look to the heavens and
there was no bat and he walked to the sidewalk where the
shame of his failure proved to him who he was, no success or
belief, worthless and alone.
And the ground beneath him moved until he arrived home
to which Arnold could see and Igor could see that there was
no Mother and no Leah.
And Arnold brought Seymour into the house and said
nothing, knowing there was nothing to. Igor drank soda
water, a dementia beginning to haunt him, his bones collapsed
into the couch, along the sports highlights of a week with
nothing ordinary and Arnold brought Seymour to the couch
with Igor, while Arnold took his throne, angled towards the
television and watched the television and Seymour looked at
television but did not see the television but the worm that had
consumed all that he was or the God that consumed all that he
was or the absence or the completeness that consumed all that
he was.IV
Seymour, older again, now drives his truck along the
highway past the landfill and towards the job site where he
will wear his boots and set the chords for the building.
And there are people who work there that are upset with
him for where he has put his chords and he says that is where
they need to go.
And Arnold goes with Igor to the fast food restaurant.
I was talking to an old buddy of mine last night. Sad story,
feeling pretty blue about it.
Oh ya, which guy?
Igor and Arnold walk past the JCC, towards the fast food
restaurant.
We go way back. You wouldn’t know him.
Sure I don’t.
Igor is intolerant.
Alright, what about him?
He’s a good Jewish kid. Typical story, had his bris in
Warsaw and his Bar Mitzvah in Montreal?
What kid had his bris in Warsaw and lived to have a Bar
Mitzvah in Montreal?
A lot of guys. Listen. He was a good man, married Jewish.
His wife was a little wide and crabby, but she was a decent
cook and a good homemaker and she put up with his income
so what more could he want?
Sure.
Anyways he’s got a secret, the guy loves treif -- pork,
bacon, shrimp all of that shit. Can’t keep his hands oﬀ the
stuﬀ. For some guys its shiksas but for this guy it was treif.
And I’m not talking about sneaking a piece of bacon here and
there, this guy ate it until his blood ran thick.
What’d you say his name was?Nothing -- so eventually his wife, God bless her, she wants
a baby so badly but it isn’t happening. They’ve been trying for
years and the Yente says start by blowing the bastard but don’t
let him finish -- that’ll turn his oatmeal into jet fuel. So ok --
that night for the first time since their wedding night she gets
down on her knees and gets ready but she goes -- HEY
WHAT GIVES SHLOMO! And she looks at his prick and
guess what? His damn foreskin had grown back, cased over his
entire pecker! The damn bastard. She knew right then and
there he’d been going out and gorging on so much treif his
foreskin grew back and covered his pecker completely. She was
so pissed at him. So what does she do? She blew him anyway --
and then when he busted a nut -- his damn pecker exploded
and he bit the dust right then and there!”
Arnold laughs so hard he almost falls over. He has to stop
and lean on a mail box.
Arnold and Igor go with the mail to center and Igor
watches a mother rock her baby stroller back and forth while
Arnold sorts through his mail. Arnold discards most of the
letters but comes across an envelope with the logo for the fast
food restaurant across the street.
Ah ha!
Coupons?
You got it.
He opens the envelope and -- BOOM -- it explodes and
blows Arnold backwards.
The Young Mom screams in terror. Smoke has filled the
area. A fire alarm flashes and blares intermittently. People
panic, scream and rush out of the building.
Arnold?
The smoke dissipates -- Igor holds his hand over his eye
and paces deliriously. He looks for his friend.
ARNOLD?Igor finds Arnold on the ground and kneels down to him.
Arnold? Come on.
Igor moves his hand from his face -- revealing blood and
intense burn marks. He tries to wake Arnold up. Arnold’s
face is covered in blood. His body is limp and he is not
responsive.
ARNOLD? Come on, we got to get out here. Arnold?
ARNOLD!
Gary rushes over to help.
Ambulances blare their sirens and speed through traﬃc
lights. Paramedics rush Arnold and Igor -- both strapped to
stretchers and hooked to IV’s -- down the hallway.
Seymour speeds through traﬃc. He lays on the horn and
revs through a red light and Seymour rushes into the hospital
and Seymour interrupts the RECEPTIONIST’s phone call.
Where the fuck is my Dad?
Sorry, I can see you’re very stressed out at the moment but
I’ll need you to sign in, can you do that for me?
She oﬀers Seymour a clipboard.
Fuck that shit. Seymour takes oﬀ down the hallway.
Seymour frantically looks into the windows of the
hospital rooms. A group of DOCTORS and NURSES hover
around Arnold. Seymour tries to push his way into the room.
Sir. This is unacceptable. Get out.
Dad! Dad, I’m here.”
Leave NOW. Get out. The Nurse pushes him out and the
waiting room is full of anxious people and Seymour’s foot taps
as he waits.
Somehow he looks the most distraught of all and the
automatic doors open, Seymour shoots up. Lucienski.
Seymour.
Yup. Is he good? Is he alright?Igor is propped up in a hospital bed. His head and eye are
bandaged.
Where’s my Dad though?
We’ll have to come get you when he’s ready but — Igor’s
listed you as his emergency contact.
Igor says, lady, just let the kid see his Dad already.
We’ll get you when it’s time.”
She leaves. Seymour stares at Igor, “Seymour...” He doesn’t
answer.
Gimmie that remote. Let’s see what kind of shlock is on
here. I doubt these cheap shlongs are even paying for basic
cable.
Seymour passes him the remote. Igor looks confused by it.
They’ve got me on some kind of Gulag anesthetic. Pull
that shit out of my arm.
Seymour takes the remote from him. He turns the TV on.
A Nurse opens the door for Seymour to enter. Arnold lies
in the hospital bed, unconscious.
Dad Seymour slowly walks towards him. There are burn
marks and bandages on his face. DAD. Seymour shakes him.
Don’t do that. Don’t. Te Nurse puts her hand on
Seymour’s shoulder.
Why isn’t he talking? What’s wrong?
He went in cardiac arrest and is in a coma for the time
being. I’ll need you to a calm down Sir. Please.
Dad, wake up! It’s me Seymour. DAD!
A Nurse pushes Igor down the hallway in a wheelchair.
They stop in front of Arnold’s room. Igor can see Seymour
sitting in a chair beside Arnold’s bed.
Seymour puts his hand on his shoulder. He looks at him
for a long time.Igor is in the hallway. He waits for him. Seymour quickly
wipes tears oﬀ his face. Igor eventually enters. Seymour looks
at him and then looks away.
Is he alright?
He’s stable.
I meant the kid.
Oh. Um -- I’m not sure.
The Nurse opens the door and the Nurse pushes Igor into
the room and Seymour looks up.
Did you check what channels he’s got?
No.
Pass me the remote. The Nurse passes Igor the remote
before leaving the room. Igor tries to turn the TV on but he
can’t figure out how to use the remote.
I’ve only got shit channels in my room but let’s see whose
getting preferential treatment.
Seymour takes the remote from him and turns it on. Same
channels in every room.
How do you know?
Why wouldn’t there be?
Fuck that shit.
Igor flips through the channels. He looks back at
Seymour. Seymour stares at his feet.
Bumped into a buddy of mine in the cafeteria -- he’s got
his face pushed up against the microwave -- I say to him --
what the hell are you doing man? Trying to get yourself sent
to the cancer ward? He says that’s right I am! I heard the
nurses there are blowing the patients -- free of charge!
...Not now Igor.
I say to him -- but buddy, isn’t your daughter a nurse
there? He says that’s damn right she is! And she looks near
identical to my wife twenty five years ago!
Seymour is too upset to laugh. Igor continues to flip the
channels on the TV. Arnold lies in the bed, in a coma.Hal, Bruno, Eli and Stuart -- from the JCC boardroom,
are crowded
Igor is in a wheelchair. Seymour enters and readjusts the
pillow that props Igor up.
Seymour, what’d they say?
Nothing.
Let me ask you something. If it wasn’t the Muslims... who
was it? Huh? I’d like to ask them that and see what they say.
Alright, Stuart, don’t get so worked up.
You think I’m wrong?
Hey Stuart.
I wasn’t talking to you Igor.
I know Patti Swizlowsky told you that you were her one
and only but -- what kind of woman gives birth to a mule age?
I’m not talking to you Igor.
Maybe it was immaculate conception... or maybe she was
out fucking horses at the ranch!
Alright guys let’s just take it easy. Come on.
I’m trying to voice a legitimate concern about anti-semitic
terrorism in our community and I know for a fact that I
wasn’t saying anything that you all weren’t already thinking.
Stuart, relax. You’re entitled to your opinions but now
isn’t the time.
We’ve got two members of our community -- getting
blasted to smithereens and still nobody wants to admit it.
Huh?
Seymour pushes Igor’s wheelchair into the cargo van. He
uses the same ramp he uses for his servers.
Toss the wheelchair.
How are you going to get around?
Walk. Toss that thing. Do you know how much they’re
going to charge for it? Fuck that wheelchair.Seymour throws the wheelchair onto the sidewalk. He
walks Igor to the passenger seat and straps him in and the next
day Seymour’s cargo truck pulls up. Igor comes out and gets
in. He still wears a bandage on his head. And Seymour drops
Igor at the hospital.
Seymour drives down the highway. Seymour pulls oﬀ the
highway and drives down a long dirt road. The dirt road leads
to patches of dead grass. The horizon is empty and barren
aside from a construction site in the distance.
Seymour uses a hand cart to haul his gear through the
mud. The other WORKERS watch him. A few of them stare
at a piece of rebar, one of them uses a machine that causes
sparks to burst in all directions. Seymour’s pants and boots are
covered in mud. He climbs higher up the building. If he were
to fall, he would plummet to his death. He lays cable across
the beams.
FAZIL comes up to him.
Hey boss. I’m Fazil. That’s Louie
Seymour.
Want a smoke?
No. I’m good.
I got to tell you boss, I want to get oﬀ to a good start but
these wires here. it’s not good to have
Where else are they going to go?
Find another way to do it boss. It’s not good to have the
wires. My guy catches his foot -- it’s a long way down.
They stand awkwardly. Seymour sizes him up. Fazil smiles
and pats Seymour on the back.
Thanks boss. Appreciate your cooperation.
Seymour continues to lay the cable down. The other guys
don’t look pleased. Seymour wheels his hand cart towards his
busted gear. All of the Workers stare at Seymour. Fazil, shakeshis head and makes his way over to him. Seymour parks the
hand cart and takes oﬀ his work gloves.
Boss, listen, what a mess here. What could have happened?
I don’t know... but surely you understand.
Fuck you.
Seymour pushes Fazil before clocking him. Seymour puts
up a fight and kicks Fazil’s ass. The rest of the guys come over.
They watch the fight at first... But when it becomes apparent
that Seymour is winning they break it up.
And then Seymour goes to finish the job. And he waves at
Fazil who says, with a smile on his face, we will have a
rematch, and Seymour returns a smile,
I’ll hold you to it.
And at the hospital -- Seymour sits next to Arnold.
Arnold’s heart rate sounds steady on the machine. Igor sits on
the other side of the room, what we’re seeing is that the
explosion gave him a heart attack which has put him in the
coma. He’s in stable condition for now.
Seymour nods.
The nurse smiles softly at Seymour before leaving the
room.
Igor tells Arnold a joke...
Arnold doesn’t laugh.
Arnold?
He doesn’t respond.
Arnold? Man. Hey.
Igor starts pressing the button. He goes into the hall.
Hey get over here.
Arnold has passed away.
Seymour puts his hand on his shoulder. He looks at him
for a long time.Igor is in the hallway. He waits for him. Seymour quickly
wipes tears oﬀ his face. Igor eventually enters. Seymour looks
at him and then looks away.
Seymour remembers what his father said, that he didn’t
have a speech prepared but he wouldn’t turn his back on him
and now that he had passed it was true that Arnold hadn’t
turned his back on Seymour.
And at the funeral Seymour speaks at the funeral and he
says that and Seymour and Igor stand next to one another at
the funeral.
Boris, Hal, Stuart, Gale, Gary -- Seymour is given a shovel.
He shovels of dirt into the grave, watching it hit the lid of the
casket. And Igor shovels the dirt until his eyes well with tears
and continues to shovel more until the members of the board
go to him and take him away.
And Seymour goes back north and finishes the job. And
Fazil talks to him again. And he asks him to fight again and
Seymour says no. And that he is sorry.
Seymour sits in his cargo van, doing nothing. Until his
phone rings and he answers.
Seymour here
...Seymour?
Yup. How can I help you?
It’s Leah.
Seymour doesn’t answer. He looks dumbfounded.
I’m sorry to hear about your father, Seymour.
He still doesn’t answer. He looks angry.
I’m sorry. I -- Igor called me.
Right.
He told me not to tell you he told me to.Seymour doesn’t say anything until Leah says again, I’m
sorry Seymour.
I’ve been working pretty steadily these past few years. I
have my own business. I fix a lot of electrical problems and set
up internet connections for people. Commercial and personal.
All kinds.
That sounds like good work.
Yup. My Dad helped me set it up.
There is silence again.
And Seymour sits in the library and a woman is there.
And she wants to print a picture of a crystal. And Seymour
recognizes her in some way that he cannot understand. And
she asks many people to help her but she cannot understand
what they are saying and she doesn’t have the money to do
what she is supposed to do. And Seymour tries to help her.
And Seymour goes to Igor. And Igor goes to the center
and he sits and Seymour sits with him. And Stuart will sit and
Gary will walk by.
And Leah call again and says that there is something he
should know. And the cargo van pulls up to Leah’s apartment.
Seymour gets to see Leah. He meets -- ALANA.
Leah is quite thin and her hair is cut short. She is dressed
casually, in jeans, which is very unlike how she was.
Alana is around five and she smiles and seems quiet, like Leah.
Hullo.
Hi.
Alana looks shy. She hides behind Leah’s leg.
They sit on the couches and Alana asks Seymour
questions, like why his ears are big.V
Seymour takes Alana to the landfill and they take Arnold’s
furniture and they throw it into the landfill.

SON OF ARNOLD
JOSHUA HILLEL BARSKYI
The Denny’s had been there longer than Mary had been alive. It was about a
fifteen minute drive away. They renovated it once, around ten years ago, around the
time she had Seymour. The new design wasn’t any better than the old one. It was it
what it was.
More often than not they all ordered hamburgers. Every once in a while
Seymour would order the chicken fingers and Arnold would order a club sandwich or
a beef dip. And sometimes Mary would get a milkshake and french fries saying she
didn’t feel like eating meat.
Mary told Seymour that one day they were going to have to start getting him
eating right or else he’d end up looking like Arnold when he grew up.
Arnold laughed at how serious she was about that. He winked at Seymour and
took a bite of his burger.
“What?” said Mary.
“What yourself,” said Arnold.
“You want him to look like you?”
“You’re lucky you get your looks from your mother,” he said to Seymour.
Seymour looked between them. They often talked to each other through him
like that.
“Your father used to be thin like you Seymour. When we met.”
“Had a head of hair then too,” said Arnold.2
“You didn’t choose to lose your hair.”
Arnold nodded sarcastically, “I should have told you then, I was a thirty waist
and in ten years I’m going to be a thirty five, would have sent you running to the hills.”
“You could do some exercise.”
“I do more exercise in one day of work then most guys do in a month. So.”
“Three days a week. Sure,” she said. That was a jab against him. Arnold was a
good worker but he had a short temper and it was easy for him to lose a job.
“I’m going into to meet Hal’s buddy on Tuesday.”
“And then you’ll be working six days a week sometimes doubles and you’ll
never be home will you?”
“Come on Mary.”
Seymour ate his fries and his burger and he ignored them as much as he could.
On the drive home Seymour stared at the road, watching the yellow lines blur
into one another. Arnold was messing with the radio. He kept changing the stations.
“Can you just pick one?” Mary asked.
“I’m just trying to find something good,” he said.
Mary looked out at the road too. She watched the lines blur into one another
until Arnold slowed down at the next light.
Mary got out of the car, rather abrubtly and she walked into the road.
“For christ’s sake,” said Arnold. He got out and went after her. She jogged
towards the sidewalk. It was a big open road and it was quiet, but there still were other
cars around.
Arnold got out and went after her. She walked faster. A passing truck lay on the3
horn and didn’t slow down.
“Up yours mother fucker,” Arnold yelled to the truck. Mary looked back at him.
“I’m walking home,” she said.
“What the hell for?"
“It’s fine.”
“Mary just get in the damn car.”
“I just. I’m going to walk home.”
“Do you have to make a scene?”
“I’m walking home.”
“Jesus christ. Fine. Walk home. Go ahead.”
Arnold got back in the car.
“You want to walk home. Fine. You can walk home,” he muttered. Seymour was
quiet.
Arnold turned on the hazards and drove along the sidewalk. He drove as slow
as she walked and followed her all the way. She didn’t look back at them once. That
ten minute drive took them an hour.
“Your mother, she’s a funny lady Seymour. She’s a damn funny lady there’s no
two ways about it,” Arnold kept muttering like this the entire way. He just bickered to
himself about how funny she was and how it was serendipidous that they met. Arnold
said that she was out of his league and getting her, that was the single luckiest thing
that ever happened to him.
They hadn’t met in any way that was extraordinary at all. He was doing4
temporary contract work and the night the job was done all of the guys went to the
pub for a few drinks.
Mary was there drinking with her friends. One of her friend’s knew one of the
guys he was working with. They got to talking and he went home with her.
She had an apartment then, it wasn’t that far from the Denny’s there. It was a
couple blocks from the bar the pub they were at.
Every damn time they went to the Denny’s Arnold had to point it out. He would
say, “that’s your mom’s old apartment. Before she gave it up,” he wouldn’t tell any
stories or anything. He would turn off and go out of the way. Mary would tell him not
to.
She would say, “Arnold, we’ve seen the place a hundred times, we don’t have
to.”
But Arnold wouldn’t listen. He liked driving passed it. For some reason.
Seymour and Arnold were sitting on the couch watching TV.
Mary was puttering around in the kitchen. She couldn’t sit still and she kept
trying to occupy herself in as many ways as she could.
Arnold kept saying, “Mary, come on and watch the show. You’re making me
anxious walking around like that.”
She wasn’t talking.
After another couple of minutes he said, “it’s a classic show Mary, you don’t
want to miss it. Come watch. I’ll put that stuff away afterwards.”
She said, “I’m listening. I can hear it all the way upstairs.”
“What, you want me to turn it down?”5
“No. Then I couldn’t hear it upstairs. And I couldn’t hear it in the bathroom and
I couldn’t hear it in the yard. And the neighbours couldn’t hear it either. And I couldn’t
hear it three blocks away. And I couldn’t hear it at work.”
Arnold made a sarcastic face at Seymour. Seymour shrugged.
They kept watching the movie. It was an old western. Mary hated westerns. She
thought they were dumb and boring.
During the commercial break Arnold kept flipping around the channels. It was
the same he did with the radio in the car.
The movie came back on and Seyour yelled, “Mom come watch!”
She didn’t answer. At the next commercial break Seymour went upstairs to find
her.
The fridge door was slightly open. Seymour looked around the corner. She
wasn’t at the table. She wasn’t in the hallway. He ran upstairs. She wasn’t in her
bedroom, or his room or the bathroom or anywhere.
“Mom?”
“She there Seymour?” Arnold yelled.
“No.”
Arnold came up the stairs. He turned the bedroom light on. “She hiding on us
or what?”
Seymour shrugged.
They re-checked the bathroom and Seymour’s bedroom. There was no sign of
her.
“She probably just went out for a bit,” Arnold said.6
“Where?”
“Probably just went for a walk,” Arnold opened the front door.
“Why?” asked Seymour.
“I don’t know.”
They slipped on their shoes.
“Should I get a flashlight?” Seymour asked.
“That’s alright.”
They walked around the yard a bit and looked around the side of the
townhouse.
They walked out to the street and looked in either direction. There was no sign
of her.
Seymour could see that Arnold looked, hurt. He could see him push it down
and they he said, “you wanna finish the show or what?” said Arnold.
Seymour shrugged.
“Come on,” Arnold said.
“What about mom?”
“Come on, let’s clean up the dishes so she doesn’t have to. How about that?”
The TV was still on and they listened to the rest of the movie while they
washed up the dishes. They put the leftovers into the fridge.
“Alright, bed time,” Arnold.
“Can I wait until mom is back?”
“Better to just pack it in and when you wake up she’ll be back, alright?”
“Can I stay up though?”7
“No.”
Seymour stared at him.
“Go upstairs.”
Seymour went back upstairs. He put on his pajamas and brushed his teeth and
then came back.
“Hey dad?”
“Yah?”
“Can I watch tv?”
“Seymour. Bed.”
Seymour went into his room and got into bed. He slammed his head down onto
the pillow.
Seymour could hear Arnold walking all around the house. He was rustling
around with everything. Looking for some clue as to where Mary went.
Arnold got on the phone.
Seymour could hear him ask, “is Mary there?” to everyone he called.
After a while Arnold came into Seymour’s bedroom.
Seymour pretended he was sleeping. Arnold tucked him in and shut off the
night table light and closed the door.
Seymour listened to Arnold go back down the stairs. He heard him as he
quietly went about putting on his shoes and jacket.
From the window Seymour saw the car lights turn on and he heard Arnold8
drive down the road.
#
II
When Seymour woke up he ran across the hall. Arnold was passed out in the
bed but there was no Mary.
He ran downstairs. She wasn’t making breakfast or watching TV.
Arnold stood at the top of the stairs. His hair was all messed up and he was in
his underpants and his undershirt and his slippers, “come on, let’s pack a lunch and
get ready.”
“Did you find her?”
“It’ll be okay Seymour,”
“Was she here?”
“Not yet.”
“Did you talk to her on the phone?”
“Not quite.”
“Are we going go look for her?”
“We’re going to get you to school.”
“But we have to look for mom.”
“Seymour.”
“Get dressed. I’ll pack you a lunch. We’ll go to the bus.”
“What about mom?”
“She’s not here.”
“But Dad, where did she go?”9
“I don’t know, Seymour, you want to ask me again?”
Seymour stopped. He looked angry.
Arnold said, “let’s get dressed. Alright? That’s what she’d want isn’t it?”
Seymour ran upstairs. He put on a t-shirt and his jeans and his socks and then
ran back out.
Arnold hadn’t even made it back to his bedroom yet. Seymour stood there and
looked up at him.
“You gonna make lunches then?”
Seymour ran back downstairs to the kitchen. He sliced some cheese and put it
inside some sandwiches and stuffed some meat in them and put on mustard and
mayo. He put the sandwiches in ziplock bags. He portioned some carrots and some
crackers. And two juices.
By the time Arnold came down he was already done. He made one lunch for
himself and one for Arnold.
Arnold was impressed.
They got into the car and Arnold drove him to the bus stop. It was only a couple
minutes walk away this was the habit they had. Arnold would wait in the car with him
until the bus showed up. It started in the winter when Arnold would run the heat for
him, but it stuck.
They didn’t say much in the car.
“Is mom going to pick me up?”
“I don’t know.”
Seymour didn’t say anything.10
“If she does, then give me a call alright?”
Seymour nodded.
“You good to get home on your if she doesn’t?”
He nodded again.
“You got your key?”
Seymour double checked him backpack. He showed it to him.
Arnold took five bucks from his wallet and gave it to Seymour.
“Here,” he said, “get a soda or some chips or something.”
Seymour nodded.
“Anyone tries to take if from you, sock em one for me, alright?”
Arnold gave a fake jab and smiled.
“Okay,” said Seymour.
The bus turned the corner.
“Will be alright okay?”
“Okay. See ya Dad.”
Seymour took his backpack and got onto the bus.
Arnold drove to Mary’s friend’s house. Tricia. They got along years ago. But
they’d didn’t see eye to eye on much so they stayed out of each other’s ways for the
most part. Mary cycled through a lot of friends but her and Tricia’s friendship was
usually reliable. He knew that Tricia didn’t like him much.
He parked on the street and walked through her yard. The grass looked like
shit. He banged on her door repeatedly.
He knew she was going to ignore it if he didn’t make a racket. He also knew that11
Mary could be in there.
He would have keep pounding at the door until his fist broke through the wood.
Tricia swung the door open. Her eyes were sleepy. She wore a t-shirt that went down
to her knees.
“What the fuck do you want? Jesus christ man,” she said.
“Mary here?”
“What?”
“Is Mary here?”
“No.”
“She stop by?”
“What?”
“Did she stop by?”
“No.”
“She call you?”
“What’s your problem?”
“You heard from her?”
“No.”
“When did you see her last?”
“What the fuck man?”
“She here?”
“Are you fucking crazy?”
“You see her you call me.”
“I’m not calling you.”12
“You got the house number. You call if you see her. That’s what I’m asking.”
“I’m not fucking calling you. So forget it.”
“I’m not fucking around,” Arnold said and slammed his fist into the side of the
house.
“Dude, see, that’s exactly it,” Tricia said.
“She took off, alright? If it was about me that’d be one thing. But it isn’t. We got
a kid who relies on her. So you fuckin see her, you call. You got that?”
“Can you chill, for like one second?”
Arnold was going to hit her if he didn’t walk away that second. So he did.
Almost missing his step and slipping off the porch.
“Okay wait,” said Tricia.
He stopped.
“You being serious.”
He looked at her.
“She’s got a shift today right?” Tricia said.
“Yah.”
“So she’ll be there, right?”
“You tell me.”
“Is Seymour okay?”
Arnold shrugged. They stared at one another for a moment. He got back in the
car and sped off.
Arnold carried flats of vegetables off of the truck. He stacked them onto a flat13
at the end of the loading dock. He’d been steady at this job for a few years now.
Usually it was three times a week. He would have taken more shifts if they had them.
He found working at the grocery store this way wasn’t bullshit work.
Three times a week wasn’t enough to keep them afloat but with Mary’s new job
at the airport hotel they were doing fine.
There was an opening at the community center that wasn’t too far from the
house. It was a maintenance position. His friend Hal said they had a guy who’d been
doing it for ten years but he was getting old. Arnold was going to meet with the guy
there, Stuart.
Arnold organized and counted all of the flats before the truck took off. The
grocery store manager, Tim, came over to check in.
“Arnold,” Tim said.
“Yah.”
“What’s going on?”
“All good.”
“I talked to Tricia.”
“Yah, what about?”
Tim gave him a sarcastic look.
“What?” said Arnold.
“Mary took off or what?”
“I don’t know.”
Arnold kept moving the flats from the truck.
“You good?” Tim asked.14
“Yah. You?”
“Yah.”
“Let me know,” Tim said.
“Will do.”
Arnold brought the shipment inside of the stock room. Organizing all of it in
the stock room took the rest of the day.
He thought about Mary for the entire day. He tried to keep the thought that she
needed some time to herself and that it didn’t have anything to do with him. He
wanted to justify the idea that she didn’t have a choice. That her mood had
plummeted, as it sometimes did, and she needed to be alone. He thought of every
reason he could to justify it. And he was stubborn about it. But his gut knew better. He
denied the fact that he knew she wasn’t coming back.
During his lunch break Arnold called the house phone a few times to see if
Mary was there. It rang through every time.
At around four he started calling the house again until Seymour picked up.
“School go okay?”
“Uh huh.”
“Any word from your mom?”
“No. Did you talk to her?”
“Not yet.”
They were quiet for a moment.
“You good?” Arnold asked him.
“I guess.”15
“You have a snack?”
“No.”
“Have a snack.”
“Ok.”
“When I’m done work I’ll come pick you up. We’ll go to mom’s work and see if
she’s there.”
“Ok. What time?”
“6:10.”
“Ok.”
Tim asked him if he wanted to take the rest of the day off. Arnold told him it
was best he finish up his day like usual. And the moment the clock hit six Arnold
clocked out and rushed home.
Seymour was waiting for him on the porch when he got there. He ran to the car.
“You eat?”
“Yah.”
“What’d you have?”
“Crackers and jam.”
“Crackers and jam eh?”
Seymour nodded.
“Good.”
They were quiet.
“We’ll have dinner when we’re back.”
“Ok.”16
“What do you wanna have?”
“I dunno.”
“What do we got?”
“Spagetti.”
“You want spagetti?”
“Ok.”
“Ok. Spagetti it is.”
Seymour stared blankly out the window.
“How did school go?”
“Good.”
“Anything happen?”
“Not really.”
When they got onto the highway Seymour started messing with the air vent. He
would flip the switch back and forth, opening and closing it. Arnold wanted to ask
him to stop. And usually he would. But today he just let him do it.
“Put on the radio,” Arnold said to Seymour.
Seymour did so. He went around to the different stations but it seemed like
every song that didn’t remind them of Mary was annoying and every song that had
anything that resembled the situation was too depressing. Arnold turned off the radio.
It was better to drive in silence.
As they sped down the highway Seymour looked at the window. They were
going fast enough that the glass shook inside of the door. Seymour started flipping17
the switch again. Arnold could see now that it was like Seymour was piloting his own
vehicle, perhaps a rocket.
For a moment he lost himself in imagining the world from Seymour’s point of
view. And when the thought returned, that Mary was gone, his temper flared. If she’d
left him then fine, that was one thing, but leaving the kid. “What kind of fucking
bullshit is that?” Arnold muttered. He gripped the steering wheel and the leather
twisted in his fist. Seymour saw that and he stopped messing with the air vent. Arnold
drove faster, trying to burn off the rage.
Arnold was pissed off that there wasn’t anywhere at the airport to put the car
that wasn’t going to cost fifteen bucks.
He pulled up the booth.
“The kid’s mom’s on shift, we’re gonna pick her up.”
The guy at the booth just looked at him. He knew he was bullshitting.
“You mind if we just pull in for a sec?” Arnold asked.
He didn’t say anything.
“Buddy, do us the favour here.”
“Fifteen bucks flat.”
“For fuck’s sake,” Arnold said and sped off. He drove them back to the gate and
put on the hazards.
They rushed through the airport, looking for some employee to talk to that
didn’t have a lineup of people infront of them. He saw a flight attendant.
“The kid’s mom works here, Mary Steinberg, you know her?”
“Sorry?”18
“Ma’am, if you could help us out.”
She kept walking.
They went to a currency exchange booth.
“Hey man, we’re looking for the kid’s mom here.”
“Oh.”
“Mary Steinberg, she works here, do you know where we could find her?”
“You could talk to security there, they might have a better idea.”
“Ya, where’s that?”
“Second set of doors. Keep going past baggage there.”
They rushed through the airport.
“Hey dad?” asked Seymour.
“Yah son?”
“I don’t think mom’s here.”
“Well we gotta look.”
“I mean. In the airport.”
“Maybe, maybe not.”
“Wouldn’t she be in the hotel? Because she works there and not in the airport.”
“For fuck’s sake. Ya. Jesus.”
Seymour could see that Arnold was sweating. He smelled like it also. It was
strange to see Arnold so blatantly wrong about something so simple.
There was a security guard writing them a ticket when they got back to the car.
“We’re good man,” Arnold said.
“You can’t park like that,” the security gaurd said.19
“We’re good. It’s all good.”
“Ticket’s already coming. Can’t stop it now.”
Arnold ignored him. They got into the car and sped off.
Seymour looked up at the big chandelliers in the lobby. He looked at the
receptionist and another one of the workers. They wore the same uniform that Mary
wore. He imagined her being there and hoped that she would be.
“Is Mary Steinberg in?” Arnold asked to the receptionist.
The receptionist looked at him wearily, she said, “I don’t think she’s here right
now sir.”
Seymour saw Tiffany around the corner. Tiffany tried pretending like she hadn’t
already seen that they were there. He watched her look away. And then Arnold called
out to her, “she show up?”
Tiffany looked embarresed and pretended she couldn’t hear him. She saw
Seymour hide behind Arnold and she said, “she isn’t here Arnold, okay?”
Arnold nodded. He looked defeated.
They were quiet on the drive back. They had the radio on quietly. Enough that it
was background noise, quiet enough that they couldn’t hear the words.
Arnold boiled the spagetti noodles and fried some frozen beef from the freezer.
Seymour sat at the table with his homework.
Seymour could see Arnold muttering to himself. Arnold was trying to come up
with something to say.
“Your mother, Seymour. I know you know she gets upset. And sometimes she20
gets worked up. And. You know, sometimes she doesn’t have a choice as to how she is.
Some people are able to, a lot of people are, but some people aren’t, and your mother
is your mother. So. I’m trying my best not to be angry at her. Because, I don’t know if
she had a choice. Alright?”
Seymour understood what he meant. He knew that Arnold was trying hard to
work it out.
They ate the spaghetti and the meat and then they washed the dishes. They
decided they would go driving again and check a few more spots.
They went to Vicky’s apartment. She was an old friend of Mary’s. She spoke
slowly and in a high register.
“Hi Seymour,” she said.
“You seen Mary?” Arnold asked.
“Um, not really? What do you mean?”
“If you hear from her, could you give us a call?”
“Oh my god, is she missing?”
Arnold didn’t say anything.
She said, “oh my god,” again.
“Just for the day,” Arnold put his arm on Seymour.
She looked concerned for them and said, “have you guys ate? Do you want me
to heat you up something?”
“Appreciate that Vicky, but we just ate. Really do appreciate the offer though.”
“What about some desert? Come on. You guys could use it. Come on.”
They sat at her table and ate some chocolate cake that she had.21
“How’s your school Seymour?” she asked.
“Good,” he said.
“What class do you like?”
“Gym.”
Vicky smiled, “gym. Good. What else?”
Seymour looked at Arnold. He was too shy to talk.
“You tell her,” Arnold said.
“Some science.”
“He’s good at it. Eh, Seymour?” Arnold was proud of him.
“Sometimes.”
“That could go a long way Seymour. Keep at it,” Vicky said.
They told Vicky about how Mary left. Seymour could see that Vicky wasn’t
totally surprised by it and he was confused by that. Vicky showed him some pictures
of her and Mary when they were in high school. Seymour looked at the picture for a
long time.
Arnold and Seymour went to a pub in the area. The bartender hadn’t seen her
and Arnold didn’t recognize anyone else there.
In the car afterward Seymour asked Arnold, “what do you think she’s doing?”
Arnold took some time before answering. He said, “I don’t know.”
After he tucked Seymour in Arnold went back into the kitchen. He was
dreading calling Pauline, Mary’s sister. After thier mom passed away, Pauline and
Mary hadn’t found a way to get along.
“Hey Pauline, this is Arnold calling.”22
“Oh.”
“Sorry to bug you Pauline."
“It’s late.”
“Yah. Listen. Has Mary been in touch at all?”
“Pff, no. Why? She took off again?”
“Can you let me know if you hear from her?”
“Fat chance I will, but sure. Gladly.”
“You got our number here?”
“Yah. I got your number, Arnold.”
“Okay.”
“How long?”
“Pardon?”
“How long has she been gone for?”
“About a day now.”
“Right. How’s Seymour?”
“He’s a tough kid.”
“Good. What choice does he have with her for a mom, right? Honestly, it’s a
wonder she’s stuck around as long as she has.”
“Thanks, yeah.”
“You talk to the cops?"
“No.”
“Here’s some advice.”
“Uh huh.”23
“Talk to the cops.”
“Listen, you think you could do me a favour?”
“Probably not.”
“If you talk to Ed, just see if she got in touch, alright?”
“As if she’d call Dad. Ha.”
“Can you run it by him?”
“I’d honestly rather not.”
“I’d appreciate if you could.”
“Why?”
“I don’t know.”
“Ok.”
“Thanks, Pauline.”
“Ya. I gotta go.”
“Alright.”
After they hung up Arnold went back upstairs to check on Seymour. He was
fast asleep.
Arnold went back downstairs and lay on the couch. He didn’t want to sleep in
the empty bed.
#
III
In the morning they waited in the car until the bus arrived. They had the sports24
radio on and neither of them paid much attention to it. Arnold turned it off when
Seymour got out of the car. He watched him run towards the bus.
Arnold went to the community center. It was off 90th avenue. There was a strip
mall around the corner, but mostly it was a residential neighborhood. He met Stuart,
the guy who ran the place. Stuart was probably ten years older than him. He looked
very serious but when he started talking he had a calm and friendly demeanour.
“You go back with Hal?”
“Twenty years or so.”
“Good. He says you got a kid at home?”
“Yeah. Seymour.”
“How old?”
“Going on ten.”
Stuart smiled when he said that. “Might need you in six days some weeks. That
something you could make work?”
“For the most part. Should be,” Arnold said.
“Good. You got experience with plumbing or electrical?”
“Can unclog a toilet.”
Staurt laughed.
“Electrical not so much, but you know. Depends what it is.”
Stuart nodded and said okay.
He showed him around the community center. There was a gymnasium, a pool,
a handful of meeting rooms, an auditorium and a cafe.
“You’ll get full access to the immedities. Your boy too, if that’s of interest.”25
Arnold was happy to hear that. That might be a good thing for Seymour.
III
Every day she was gone they got a little more used to it being just the two of
them. They didn’t hear from her sister or her dad or any of their friends. She never
showed up at the hotel again.
Eventually Arnold stopped going around looking for her. He thought it better to
be around for Seymour and figure out how they were going to go forward than
searching around for someone who didn’t want to be there. He’d stopped thinking
that she didn’t have a choice. He knew that was bullshit since day one.
They never went back to Denny’s. At first Arnold would take a detour to avoid
even driving past the place. But eventually he stopped. The first time they drove past it
Seymour flipped the AC vent, the same way he did when they were on the highway,
going towards the airport.
After the winter they’d gotten a pair of tickets to the baseball game. That was
the first time Seymour got to go and Arnold was happy to see how excited he was.
There was a Saturday morning when Seymour woke up and came downstairs.
Half of the furniture was missing, the decorations were taken down, and half the
kitchen was gone. Arnold was frying eggs and making toast for them.
“We’re gonna head to the dump.”
“The dump?”
“Yah. I ever take you there before?”
“No,” Seymour was rubbing the sleep out of his eyes. He sat at the table. Arnold26
put a plate of breakfast infront of him.
“Where’s all our stuff?”
“I packed it in the car.”
“Why?”
“It was your mother’s.”
Seymour looked at where the cabinet was. The carpet was flattened where it
used to be.
“You got those work gloves I gave you?”
Seymour nodded. He had a mouthful of toast.
“Don’t forget them.”
The furniture was tied to the room and the whole car was jammed with all of
Mary’s old stuff. Arnold passed Seymour a lamp to hold because it wouldn’t cram in
with everything else. Seymour could feel the car drive slower with the weight of it all.
Seymour watched the seagulls swooping down all over the dump, diving into
the piles of trash.
They tossed Mary’s stuff out of the car. Garbage bags of her clothes, vases, rugs
the lamp.
Seymour watched Arnold climb ontop of the car and toss Mary’s night table off.
One of the legs snapped off when it hit the ground. He could how hard that was for
Arnold to do. That was the table she slept beside for longer than Seymour had been
alive. He looked at his Dad and didn’t think he would ever be as tough as him.
“Come on up,” he said to Seymour. Seymour was scared but he did. Arnold27
made sure he didn’t fall.
Arnold gripped one side of the dresser and nodded at the other, “grab the other
end,” he said to Seymour.
Seymour did so. Seymour’s heart was beating fast. This was the biggest piece of
furniture. He was overwhelmed by its weight.
“On three, alright?” Arnold said.
Seymour nodded.
Arnold could see the fear in him. He said “ready?”
“Yup,” said Seymour.
“Alright. One. Two.”
Seymour interuppted and said, “um, Dad?”
“Yeah?”
“What if she comes back?”
This caught Arnold off gaurd. His throat became thick and he was stuck for
words. He said, “then she does.”
Seymour nodded.
“Alright?” Arnold said.
“Alright.”
Arnold counted them in. On three, they tossed the dresser off the car. Its
backing snapped and it lay there, the nails seperated from the wood.
They sat at some roadside restaurant. They sat by the window. The car was
emptied.
Seymour wasn’t eating his meal. He stared at the glob of relish and mustard28
that had dripped onto his fries.
Arnold could see how upset he was. He said, “good burgers here.”
Seymour’s attention became lost out the window, somewhere past the car,
towards the road.
“Alright son, listen,” Arnold said. He put his burger down and wiped the sauce
off his mouth. “I don’t have much of a pep talk, none that I haven’t given you already.
So. All I can say, is that we’re just going to have to tough it out here. And keep busy.
We’ll stick together and work hard and keep busy. Not much else we can do about it.”
Seymour nodded. He could see that Arnold was trying. But he was sad as hell.
Arnold said, “I’ll tell you one thing, Seymour. No matter what goes on, I sure as
hell won’t turn my back on you. Alright? You can be damn sure to count on it. How
about that?”
Seymour nodded. That meant something to him. He said, “ok.”
“We got a deal then?” Arnold said.
“Yah.”
“Good.”
Arnold took his burger and ate again.
Seymour looked at him.
“And Dad?” Seymour said.
“What?” he had a mouthfull of food and the sauce was already back on his face.
“I won’t turn my back on you neither.”
Arnold grinned at that and said, “good.”









The Blue Nile
Joshua Hillel Barsky1
HE WANTED TO HAVE A JOB AND HE WANTED TO HAVE A WIFE AND HE WANTED
to have a job that afforded him the ability to support the kids that his wife
would want to have. He didn’t know exactly where the idea came from, it
seemed inherent to his nature. Perhaps it came from his mother, perhaps it
was how he was programmed, like any animal, to keep the species moving
forwards.
Staring out at the pizza sign. He hadn’t slept long. Two hours or so. His
thoughts wandered, but we're supported by a misery that tortured him, but
that felt ordinary to him. It identified him, to himself. It was difficult for
him to describe it exactly. It corroded his stomach and made his blood feel
prickly, like his veins were sawtooth. It seemed there was nothing he could
do. So he sat there, in the night, staring out his apartment window, at a
busted pizza sign. Waiting for the feeling to pass.
He did not know how long had passed. Forty five minutes, or so. He saw
a guy that he knew from before. The guy chugged a large bottle of diet cola
and wore only and undershirt and a single sock.
Igor went down and stood near him. The last time they spoke the guy
told Igor that he didn’t even know which dog cunt was his head and that his
face was a rat’s dog cunt. He asked him if he even had ass hair, let alone a
single piece of shit in his ass. He told him he was a dickless fudgepacker. It
had made Igor laugh hysterically and for days afterward, he would burst
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 2
into laughter, just thinking about it. It made him forget who he was. But
today the guy was quiet. Igor noticed that the man had an erection and he
remembered that he once told him he had a retractable dog’s leash inside of
his dick and it was connected to a hummingbird. A cop car drove slowly
towards them. They arrested the guy and drove off.
He did not know what to think about that. It was hopeless that this guy
could function in the world. There was no wife out there for him. He could
not support a family. Igor wondered, if the man knew that. Surely he must,
Igor thought. But perhaps he didn’t. Maybe he was like Igor, and Igor like
him, living with the delusion that they could make it work. That they could
fulfill their calling.
Igor went to the gas station. He watched the taquitos and the hot dogs
behind the glass. He looked at the slurpee machine and the soda machine.
He bought a bag of spicy cheese chips and ate them outside, near the
propane tanks and the ice machine. He thought of his mother, he had been
at her apartment earlier, for supper, she cooked him fish and cabbage soup.
She told him how worried she was about his sister, who was moving away
to a small town, a few hours north of the city. She was following her
professor, a sessional, who she thought she was in love with. His mother, as
usual, explained how little money that they had. Igor had learned, after all of
these years, that there was no talking her out of it. If he brought her fifty
dollars or two thousand, she always said the same thing. She thought that
Igor worked in a computer repair shop, which made her very proud. He
didn’t have that job, but he still earned money doing this and that, to
support his mother and sister. His mother told him two things. On one
hand, she told him that things would work out, in the end, and on the other
hand, she seemed inconsolable, that they were destined for misery.
Everything would be okay, but what if you end up poor and alone Igor? I’m
sorry worried about you. But everything will be okay.
A meter maid parked ahead. Igor watched her get out of her car, he
thought that she was ugly and worked a shit job and probably would want
to sleep with him. As she passed him, she looked at him so flippantly that his mind changed and he felt a deep sense of insecurity overcome him. He tried to defend himself, and thought that she was probably scared of him or knew that she was shit. He thought that she was a misanthrope and never lost her virginity because the world treated her like such shit in her life. He thought that ever since she was a kid, in school, she was fat and dumb and boring. He thought that when she came back out he would talk to her, but
when she came back out, and saw the look on her face, he didn’t. He saw
that even though she might have been obese and alone, she still wouldn’t
want to sleep with him. That was how much of a piece of shit he was.
Perhaps the guy, with the hummingbird attached to his dog leash dick,
would be loveable to her. Maybe she could take care of him, and he could
give her the genuine companionship that Igor thought, she was so clearly
lacking. That thought brought him some peace.
On the way back to his apartment, he regret not buying a hot dog. He
thought of going back to the gas station, but he didn’t want to. He became
distracted by a prostitute that stood under the pizza sign. He didn’t
recognize her. She didn’t pay any attention to him as he passed her. He kept
looking at her. She wore ripped jeans and a thin tank top under a ratty pink
and yellow ski jacket. She had blonde hair, it was frizzy and messy. Her face
looked small, her mouth hung open in an odd angle and her posture seems
slightly contorted. He wanted to know what her name was. He guessed it
was Sara. Within a moment, he imagined himself protecting her from some
evil, violence perhaps. He imagined taking her for supper. He imagined
holding her hand. And introducing her to his mother. He imagined her
loving him, and taking care of their home. He imagined their children, and
him coming home from work, with some kind of briefcase, and a suit. He
imagined the kids running to him, and he imagined dinner on the table. He
imagined watching tv on the weekend while the kids played in the yard. The
prostitute, Sara, did not notice him.
He sat on his bed and watched a video on his laptop of a woman filming
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 4
what she ate in a day. He watched a video on which computer monitor had
the best quality for the cheapest price. He looked back out the window and
saw that Sara was still there. She looked frozen. He compared the quality of
what he saw out the window, to his laptop screen and was unsure how to
discern the difference. He watched a video of how to win at online poker.
He masturbated while watching a video of people having sex and then he
fell asleep.
2
WHEN HE WOKE, IT WAS DAYTIME AND THE STREETS HAD BECOME BUSY WITH
people. He stared out the window and watched them as his sleepiness faded
off. Sara was gone. He opened a message from a guy named Alex. Alex asked
if he wanted to hang out in the afternoon. He didn’t answer and became
frustrated and restless in his indecision.
He went back to the gas station and bought a cup of coffee. There was a
different person working now. She was overweight and friendly to him. He
didn’t know if she recognized him or not. He stood near the propane tanks
and drank the coffee. He watched people driving in and out of the station.
This is what people looked like, living their lives, he thought. A feeling of
guilt crept up on him. He felt inadequate in comparison to everyone that he
saw. He felt it was impossible for him to be a person, like they were clearly
able to. He tried to imagine a version of himself that could, but his thoughts
became foggy and he was distracted.
He saw the meter maid again, now at the end of her shift. She walked
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 5
across the street, with a piece of chalk, marking people’s tires. He saw how
she avoided making eye contact with everyone she passed. He saw that
everyone hated her. It made him feel good to see that. She gave him hope
that there were pieces of shit like him out there. He thought that maybe he
was mistaken to feel the shame that he felt the night before. She knew
everyone hated her, for the job that she did, and there would be no
changing that. The only line of defence would be to adopt an air of
cuntiness so severe that people would hate themselves at the sight of her.
That job must have paid decently, he thought. Maybe he could do it, one
day. He followed her, up the street, and watched how she worked. The
simple tasks that she did. She wrote a ticket and put it onto a windshield.
He tried to work up the courage to talk to her, but when she got into her
car, their eyes met and he could see that she recognized him. He waved at
her. She looked disgusted and drove off.
He felt like scum, again, more so now than before. Even the homeless
were better off than he was. It seemed to him that they knew their place and
had accepted where they had ended up. Unlike him, who wandered
aimlessly, foolishly thinking he would be able to sort himself out, if only he
put the pieces in the right formation.
He went into the shopping mall and tried to find some solace or
meaning or something that could take his interest and distract him from
himself. He went into an outerwear store and looked at the jackets. He
became interested in a yellow jacket. The shopkeeper approached him,
jovially.
How’s it going today?
All good.
Anything I can help you find today, or just stopping in?
Just looking around.
Great day for it.
Thank you.
That one just came in. It's seven hundred fifty fill if you can believe it.
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 6
AR series. So, it can be great as a mid layer or just a standalone piece. She
waited for him to respond, but he had nothing to day. I’ll let you browse
around, but if you need anything just give me a holler alright?
Igor nodded. When she walked off, he tried on the yellow jacket. He
looked at himself in the mirror and felt, that somehow he was himself. He
felt confident and unique. He zipped and unzipped it, and saw how perfectly
it fit around his arms. He took it off and put it back. He looked at the
shopkeeper again. She was breaking cardboard boxes down. He looked at
some of the other clothes, but all of them looked useless and shitty to him.
He kept thinking about the yellow jacket, he circled back to it and looked at
it again. The shopkeeper was helping a couple that had walked in. He put
the yellow jacket back on, and walked out of the shop without looking back.
He heard the alarm beeping behind him but he didn’t stop. He walked to the
end of the mall and then crossed the street and went down into the subway
station.
He crossed into a row of underground shops, that were too shitty to
afford the other mall’s rent, and went into a computer store. He undid the
jacket and began to catch his breath. He looked at the computer monitors
and tried to find the one that he saw in the video he was watching. The
man who was working sat at the cash register and ignored him.
I’m looking for the ZR03.
We don’t have it.
Alright. Hey, are you hiring?
I think we’re good. But. Doesn’t hurt to drop off a resume. Can keep it
on file.
How much do you pay?
Minimum wage.
Cool.
Igor walked away. He went to the food court and ordered a box of
Chinese food. The noodles were stale but he didn’t mind very much. He
tried to finish the entire box , so he didn’t have to carry the leftovers home
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 7
but he was too full.
He stopped in at the U mart on his way back to his apartment. The guy
who worked there was Igor’s landlord’s son, Winston. Igor thought Winston
was hilarious.
Yo man.
Hey.
What up?
Working.
What do you think about this jacket?
It’s fine. How much was it?
A lot.
Did you steal it?
No.
I kill motherfuckers who steal from me.
No one would steal anything from here. All you have are fake energy
drinks and dead money trees.
Get the fuck out of my store jew.
Igor laughed and he saw Winston crack a smile.
When he got home he looked in the mirror and admired how the jacket
looked on him. He ripped off the tags and tossed them across the room.
There was a security ink tag on the inside. He took a fork and tried to pry
it off. It would break so he bashed it with the back end of a screw driver.
Purple ink globbed out and stained the inside of the coat. He looked at the
store’s website and saw that it was worth eleven hundred dollars. He looked
at himself in the mirror again, comparing how he looked to the models on
the website. The models had distinct strange features like him. He was tall
and had high cheek bones. His eyes were beady and he had a large nose and
a small mouth. He was skinnier than them though, but he knew he also
didn’t waste all of his time at the gym and obsessing over their bodies like
they did.
He had another message from Alex. It said that he was close to his place
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 8
and asked if he wanted to meet up and walk around for a bit. They walked
around chinatown, Igor kept glimpsing at himself in the reflections of the
shop windows.
That jacket is sick man.
Yah eh?
Fuckin sick. Where’d you get it?
Some store, I don’t know.
Fuckin eh. I gotta get a new jacket like that bro. My fuckin jacket is
wrecked. Looks sick on you. But bro, let me tell you about this shit.
Alright.
It’s the sickest job ever. Did it last week. You gotta get in on it. You
remember Kevin?
No.
From Elderwood.
Kevin?
Yah man, gay Kevin.
I don’t know.
You’d remember him man. But he hooked me up with this fuckin guy
who works at the shipping yards. You know what I’m saying? So this guy
can get us in. All you need to do is get in the truck and drop it off forty
minutes away. Pay you when you deliver it. Five hundred bucks cash.
Can you do six?
No man. It’s five. I’m getting five too. Good try. We can head there right
now. And man, it probably won’t just be a one time thing. If it goes alright,
we can do it again. So. You know what I mean?
Cool, yah.
Sick man, let’s fuckin go then. Fuckin sick. And bro. Let me tell you
some shit.
Alright.
Nice.
This chick I banged bro. She was trash, dog.
She was down for anything. I was like fuck. I was so wasted. My dick
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 9
smelled like fuckin ass for days bro. It got me thinking, like bro, what if
there was diarrhea in her ass bro and it got in my dick. I was thinking of
getting an std test just so the doctor could swap out my dick and clean it off
man. But fuck man. I just keep thinking about her. Like I wanna call her
again. She was hot as fuck. But fat.
Where’d you meet her?
The club. Fuckin, crocodile rock. You know that place?
Yah. Fuck that.
Bro, you can’t go hate on every fuckin club.
They’re bullshit. Everyone’s a fag there.
Dude, what the fuck? We should go. Maybe tonight bro. Sometimes at
the end of the night the guys all go. You’ll see man, these guys are dope. If
they’re going we have to go.
Fuck that shit man.
Yo, what’s that purple shit on your coat man? Did you jack that shit?
No man.
Fuck eh, you’re hilarious bro. Like fuckin eh man. But yo, man are we
doing this? Are you fuckin in?
Yah man.
Fuckin eh.
3
EVEN WHEN ALEX WASN’T SAY ANYTHING, IGOR WAS PISSED OFF AT WHAT HE
said. This is why he knew he shouldn’t have answered his message. He
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 10
thought about telling Alex that he was a fucking idiot, but it seemed like the
words were trapped in his throat. He was a lot taller than Alex, he looked at
the top of his head, and saw the strangeness of his hair loss. He knew that if
Alex knew how it looked, he would shave it off entirely or buy a hat and
never take it off. Or grow it out and stop giving a fuck about how it looked,
but as he had it at the moment, it was clear that Alex gave a lot of fucks.
Him and Alex had worked together at a small shithole coffee shop for a very
brief amount of time. Alex used to bring in weird pharmaceutical drugs and
they would take them and be high and do nothing. One day the owner came
in and said that his wife was walking by and saw that the place looked like a
shit hole. Igor lost his temper and quit on the spot. He handed his boss the
mop. Alex worked there for a bit longer. He was trying to get himself
through university, he was taking business. He had come from a small town,
where his dad worked in the only department store. It was pathetic to
everyone, having those city suits around, and so to compensate, Alex moved
to the city and aspired to be someone who could wear a suit like that and
pull it off. A place where farm hicks were unsophisticated pieces of shit. But
he didn’t have the patience to get through school, or the acumen to get
hired off the street. One of his friend’s, Sasha, who was from the town that
neighboured Alex’s, got killed, when they were stealing trucks, the same way
they were now, and after that, he quit school and went full time into
stealing. You’d think it would have been the opposite, but there he was. Igor
had never met Sasha, but Alex had talked about him, during their shifts at
the cafe. When he was wasted, Alex had confided in Igor that they had
dumped Sasha’s body into the lake. Igor never brought it up again, he didn’t
know if it was true or not. But he’d searched around online, quite a bit, and
there was no obituary.
They walked near the lakeshore, they passed an abandoned sugar plant
and the ferry terminal. There was a dirt parking lot that was near the
harbour front event centre.
Igor noticed the attendant there. She looked young, maybe fifteen or
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 11
sixteen. Her backpack was dumped on the ground. There were black marker
drawings all over it. She held a neon orange wand, There was something
about the way she stood, standing on her cell phone, that made him notice
her. He felt it in his gut, it heated for a moment and he wanted to talk to
her.
You know that chick man?
Huh?
You know that chick?
No.
Man, look at all that fuckin shit. Range rover, mercedes, audi. Look at all
that fuckin shit yo. Probably some gay rich shit going on there. That bitch
has gotta be honey potting those fuckin cunts man. Some high school chick
working for less than minimum wage man. Imagine that fuckin shit man.
You got a crush on that chick man?
Igor looked towards the event centre, he saw seagulls clustered around
the patio, that faced the water. People wore expensive gowns and suits and
held champagne glasses. The sun had almost set and the view of the lake
was at its most valuable. The light glint off whatever gown or wake caught
it.
Fuckin eh man.
Igor looked back at the parking lot attendant. He could hardly see her
face, but still he felt something that drew him towards her. He knew that
she would never want to talk to him. He imagined himself going over and
talking to her, he imagined her seeing his jacket and knowing its worth and
seeing how well it suited him. She would see how strange he was, but could
see that he was complicated and that they were the same. Wherever she was
from, no matter how different it was than him, it would be no obstacle. He
imagined that she loved him, and that everything would be okay then. He
imagined then, approaching her, and her looking at him, like the meter maid
had. Or how he imagined the women at the club would look at him. He
looked at Alex, and his disproportionate face, and how unfortunately his
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 12
nose was built. He imagined Alex at the club, thinking that girls would like
him, he had an idiot’s confidence that Igor didn’t. He did not know how to
get that confidence.
The sun had set and they were near the shipping yards.
Alright man, you good?
Yah.
Carlo will let us in. Don’t say anything. Just follow me. He’ll take us to
the shipping containers. I’ll open one, start the truck and then you get in
and drive. Forty New Dundas Avenue. Go to the back of the building and
drive in. The gate will be open. If the gate isn’t open circle around until it
is. And once I start the vehicle, you get in, and do not shut it off. So
whatever you do, don’t cut the engine. You got that?
Igor followed Alex around the back of the building. His heart beat
quickly, he knew this was a bad idea, but controlling that impulse, is what
he was being paid to do. They stood at the back of the building and Alex
texted Carlo. They were silent, Igor saw that Alex was not his usual piece of
shit self. He was locked in and wasn’t going to fuck around. Igor was scared
of him, suddenly. He saw that Alex was good at this and that maybe, all of
the bullshit that he talked about, what earned, by this. Igor tried to look like
Alex, and from the outside no one would know what kind of insecurity was
going on in his mind. It was possible that Alex was thinking the same. He
had gotten good at keeping it contained, and that is, he realized again, what
he was being paid for. Carlo opened the door. No one said anything. Carlo
must have looked at Alex and Igor for half a second before guiding them
into the building.
They walked quickly, sharply and precisely turning corners. It was very
quiet, except for Igor’s jacket. It was noisy and he was pissed off. He didn’t
know if the other’s noticed or cared, but he thought it outed him as an
amateur. They went outside again, and there were rows of shipping
containers. They stopped at one. Carlo opened the lock. Alex took device
from his jacket, it had a green flashing light and a small antenna. Igor
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 13
watched him, and he watched Carlo. At one point Carlo looked at him, and
he looked back at the device. The truck unlocked and then the engine
started. Alex looked at Igor. Igor walked to the door and got into the truck.
Alex and Carlo walked off. Igor was not a good driver, he jerked the truck
forward and slammed on the break, before getting his bearings. He didn’t
know where the exit was, he took a left and drove towards the water. Carlo
ran from the side of one of the shipping containers and banged on the
window. He looked angry as hell and pointed Igor in the other direction,
Igor put the truck reverse and started to go the way he told him but Carlo
got angrier, he pointed to him to go around. And then he shook his head.
Igor saw the disappointment on Alex’s face. But he did what Carlo told him,
he left the warehouse and got onto the road.
Igor felt powerful driving the truck. He tried to see the parking lot
attendant again, he saw the orange glow of her wand, and he wanted to
know if she saw him driving. He sped along the expressway. The traffic was
mild. He turned off, and went to where Alex told him to go. The gate was
open. He drove in and parked.
Stop there.
Igor got out, he left the engine running.
He walked towards the guy. Igor was intimidated by him, but he tried to
look calm and serious, like how Alex was.
Sup man.
The guy walked around the truck, he looked under it, on the roof, on
the inside. He cut the engine.
Alright we’re good man.
Igor stood there, he looked around the place. It was an auto shop.
Three men were on the other side of the room. They were taking off
police uniforms and had a woman zip tide to a chair. She was gagged and
looked at Igor.
The guy gave Igor a small envelope.
You good?
Ya. &2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 14
There’s the door.
Igor looked at the door. The guy looked bothered by him.
Yo is it good if I wait for Alex?
Who the fuck is Alex?
Igor didn’t say anything.
He said we might be going to the club after.
Bro, are you fucked? Take a hike man.
Igor wanted to say something else but he became tongue tied.
Alright, sick man.
He stood there for another moment too long and then left. He stood
outside and opened the envelope. He counted the money. The guy came out.
Don’t fucking count that here. Get the fuck out of here man. Fuck.
Shit.
Igor put the envelope into his jacket and went back to the street.
He felt good when he walked home. There was a secret pocket on the
inside of his jacket that the money fit into well. He held it tightly as he
walked. He walked through the club district and thought that they were all
fags. He had his money and he wasn’t going to waste it on overpriced
drinks and trying to get laid by some fat idiot.
He stopped at the gas station on the way home. After midnight they had
a promotion were you could buy two hot dogs for the price of one. He
loaded them up with onions and sauerkraut and ketchup.
He ate them beside the propane tanks and waited to see if the meter
maid would show up. He kept thinking of what it would be like to talk to
her. And if she would ask him to come over to her house and if he would
have sex with her. If he did that, she’d probably make him watch some
dumb ass tv show afterward. He imagined her apartment. There was
probably old white fluffy carpet. He imagined it was menstrual stained and
how she had spent so long trying to scrub it out with all of her cleaning
products, but it was still there. He imagined all of the stupid tv shows she
watched, alone, eating non fat foods and stinking up the place with her gay
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 15
ass pussy farts. He became scared that if he went over there she would make
him wear a dog collar and trap him in a dungeon forever feeding him
quarters like he was a parking meter.
He saw the prostitute standing underneath the pizza sign. He had five
hundred dollars, minus the price of a hot dog, in his pocket. He looked at he
but she didn’t notice him. Instead, she stared off, at some cloud that didn’t
exist. He was too afraid to go to speak to her. Instead, he went back to his
apartment.
He counted the money. It was all there. He expected to see a message
from Alex, but there wasn’t one. He thought about messaging him but he
knew that Alex would have messaged if he wanted to. He wondered if they
were at the club, and if they thought he was an idiot and that’s why they
didn’t ask him to come along. They saw he was a shitty driver and they
could find someone better than him. He kept the money in the secret pocket
of his jacket and hung it on the door so that he could see it.
He went onto his laptop and watched videos. They were random for the
most part, and none of them caught his attention. He watched four episodes
of a show about a detective and a serial killer. It was slow moving, but each
episode had enough to keep him watching. He thought of eating the leftover
Chinese food, but decided it would be better for breakfast. He watched
videos of people having sex again. He was annoyed by the lesbians and the
men that he saw. Instead he watched girls that were alone. He masturbated
and thought of the meter maid, and the prostitute and the girl that he saw
in the parking lot. After he finished he fell asleep on his mattress. As he
slept the laptop’s battery slowly drained and then, eventually, it died.THE BLUE NILE 16
4
IGOR SAT IN HIS MOTHER’S KITCHEN. ALL OF THE MONEY HE’D EARNED WAS ON
the table. She took salted fish from a jar and placed them along a plate to
serve to Igor, along with a large slice of black bread.
Your sister, Igor, things aren’t going well for her. Her professor, who
teaches her nothing, she wants to follow him, to some nothing town. She
wants to destroy her life. Spending what she does on those classes. She
thinks she will become a doctor and save the world. She thinks she loves
this man, but she doesn’t know anything. She is throwing her life away. She
thinks nothing will happen to her, she think it will all end up as well as her
dreams, and even past that. How wrong she is.
She took the money off of the table and took it into her bedroom. She
used a step stool to climb up to the top shelf of her closet. She put the
money into a shoebox and secured it with an elastic band. She closed the
closet door and put the step stool back to where it was.
Igor’s mouth was full of fish and bread.
I’m very proud of you Igor. Your sister knows how hard you work for
her. Even if she doesn’t say it. If you weren’t so responsible, Igor, she would
be so far into debt she would never climb out of it. She knows how much
you work. And I’m very proud of you, Igor.
Thanks mom. He burped into his fist and slouched into his chair.
She got up again, she took some of the black bread crumbs and put
them along the windowsill. The pigeons flocked quickly.
Igor. &2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 17
Ya?
Your sister wanted me to ask you something.
Ok.
Don’t be embarrassed. I told her you wouldn’t want me to ask you, but
she insisted.
Alright.
She wants to know, if there was a special woman in your life. Or
someone who you have been thinking about.
Mom.
I told her you wouldn’t want me to ask, but I said that I would. That’s
all I’m saying.
Igor looked at the birds on the windowsill. His mother saw that he
looked, sad and ashamed.
Oh Igor, don’t be so upset. What? Come on. Chin up.
He tried to, but he didn’t know what to say.
She swept the dust, aimlessly, to busy herself. She finally stopped.
Igor, let me tell you something. You are tall and handsome. And you are
healthy and you make money and support your mother and your sister. And
you have a nice smile and good manners. Any woman, it would be their
wish come true if you would take them out, they would be so lucky to have
you.
Igor blushed and smiled some, and she went back to her sweeping.
On the walk back to his apartment, he thought of the parking lot
attendant. He went out of his way to see if she was working again.
She stood in the empty parking lot, wearing headphones. It seemed there
was no event. The lighting lacked the strange magic that it had from the
night previous. He was too frightened to speak to her. He walked away
again. His thoughts began to feel slanted. He thought that he was a dumb
piece of shit, he thought that his mother didn’t know what she was talking
about. He knew that in her mind, he was only an extension of her and she
was lying to herself. She couldn’t face the truth of how little the world cared
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 18
about them. But he knew that he was not owed anything and that the worth
thought of him as the shit that he was. He walked this way, for twenty
minutes or so, and then for no reason, the thoughts ceased to exist. He
turned around and walked back to the parking lot.
He walked up to her, she blushed and wearily took off her headphones.
Um, hey.
Hey. I, uh. I think I saw you here yesterday.
Oh. Um, ya. I was working.
What was all that shit?
Oh. It was like, a fundraiser.
Shit, eh?
Yah.
I was heading to a job. At the shipping yard.
Oh, nice.
It was cool.
He looked at the ground and she looked away. He zipped up his jacket
and she looked up. He saw her look at the brand and he wasn’t sure if she
knew anything about it. He saw her backpack on the portable chair. There
were absurd and satanic looking sharpie marker drawings on it. The fabric
was old and torn, it was decorated in cartoon patches. She blushed when
she saw him looking at it.
Are you, do you need a parking spot? It’s um.
Nah, that’s alright. Sorry.
That’s okay.
You just stand here and wait for people to show up?
Pretty much.
Does it pay good?
Twenty bucks an hour.
Oh damn.
Yah. It’s cash too. So. Like, whatever, right?
Yah. That’s good actually.
I barely do anything. I just stand here and listen to music. If a lot of cars
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 19
show up then I just tell them to go further down.
Nice.
Yah I literally just go like this. She waved the orange wand and showed
him. It doesn’t even matter which direction.
Igor smiled.
My dad works in the film industry. Like. Driving trucks. So, you know.
He knows the guy who owns the lot. Because of like. Cars. You know?
Ya. For sure.
There was a lull, she took a vape pen from her pocket.
Hey. Could I get your number?
Oh. Um. She looked away and blushed.
Like. Man, you know. I was just. Shit.
He blushed too. She smiled at that. She was endeared by how
embarrassed he was.
Like just to talk, and you know what I mean? I just. I noticed you. And.
My mom is like. Whatever. Fuck. You know what I mean?
He kicked the dirt. She laughed at him.
Yah.
No shit eh?
She shrugged. She took his phone and typed in her number. He saw that
her name was Vanessa.
Sick. I’ll text you.
Alright.
He didn’t wait long before texting her.
Hey.
I typed your name as tall guy lol.
What were you listening to.
The Blue Nile.
What’s that?
Some shitty band lol. What are you up to for the night.
Just going home. You?
Working lol. &2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 20
Anything after?
Going home. Dinner. Same old shit.
He didn’t respond.
On the weekend there were like four firemen in my building.
Why.
I don’t know. But it was crazy. Lol. I’m like, what if my building literally
goes on fire. I live super high up. I’m not going to like run down the stairs.
She sent him a blurry photo of the backs of a bunch of fire fighters. He
looked at the photo and was unsure what to say.
They were like checking the gas line lol.
Ya fuck eh. Shit could blow for real.
Lol seriously. How fucked would that be.
He didn’t know what else to say to her. He felt like he could sense a
certain sarcasm and neurosis in her, but still she had an optimistic outlook
that was unfamiliar to him. It made him happy in a way. It seemed like she
actually believed it. He felt inferior to her and felt something new, that she
was willing to text him, and so adamant to text him. Her messages were
banal. He didn’t have any idea why she was telling him about the firefighters
in her building. But he liked getting the messages from her.
Yo.
Hey.
My name is Igor.
Tall guy.THE BLUE NILE 21
5
HE DREAMT HE WAS TRAPPED IN A FLESH ASSHOLE WATERSLIDE AND THAT
someone was trying to puncture him with a needle. When he woke up the
sun was in his eyes and the colour of his eyelids did look like asshole.
He had twenty one messages from Vanessa.
lol omg
gym class is lame fuck
gym teacher has a whistle
i keep having to take work calls and he’s like glaring at me evil
Theo’s like calling me about this woman from the fundraiser
he’s legit obsessed with her
she’s like a philanthropist her dad is top five richest people in Canada
which i guess is nothing compared to us money
but he’s like asking me for dating advice
like how to get her to love him
and i’m like. dude, i’m in high school bro
and he’s whatever
so now he wants to open a restaurant because he knows she loves
restaurants but like who doesn't
and so he wants me to meet him and help him find a space to build the
restaurant in
I’m like how much money do you have that you can just buy a
restaurant
like he must be loaded dude &2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 22
anyway what are you up to?
lol my gym teacher is legit gay perv
whistleblower
Theo stared at the messages. He didn’t know how to respond. He was
annoyed by how much she cared about this guy Theo, and his money, but
he liked the attention. He didn’t respond. For all she knew he was still
sleeping.
He looked out the window, at the pizza restaurant. The prostitute wasn’t
there. He looked at the pizzas on the rack but they were too far away. He
thought of how much money that he had and he had started to feel the need
to have that. Otherwise he would lose her to Theo. And even if he made all
the money in the world, it still seemed like nothing compared to what Theo
had. Stealing trucks and getting paid, was brutally easy money. But now it
was peanuts compared to what Theo had. He needed more money. He
messaged Alex and asked him if he could do another job.
He wrote to Vanessa.
lol gym class is fucked
she wrote -- lol legit
do you want to hang out again at some point?
She didn’t respond immediately. He became anxious, quickly and then
left the apartment. He left his phone at home so that he could be away from
all of it.
He went to the pizza restaurant and ordered a slice. He covered it in hot
sauce and ate it quickly. He looked at where the prostitute usually was. He
noticed how his thoughts returned to Vanessa.
He walked past the gas station and the shopping mall. There was a Brinx
truck parked outside of a bank. He must have walked by that bank hundreds
of times but he never thought about it. He stood and watched. A guard
pushed a canvas bag on a dolly, from the bank to the truck. The other guard
stayed in the truck, behind the wheel. Once the money was locked up they
drove off.
He thought of telling Vanessa about it and then became frustrated by
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 23
how often he was thinking about her. He wanted to impress her and he
wanted her to like him. But he didn’t want to fight for her. He wanted her
to like him because she did.
Alex wrote back and told him to meet him the following day, they could
go again.
He stayed out, wandering aimlessly. He looked at the peking ducks
hanging in the windows. He went into a bakery and thought of buying a
sesame ball but decided not to. He looked in a clothing store and thought
that everything they sold was bullshit. He was sweating in his yellow jacket.
He looked at the people, living their lives and he wanted to know what they
were doing and how they kept themselves motivated to continue doing what
they were doing. All this, to keep himself away from his cell phone for as
long as possible.
When he got home he had a lot of messages from her again. He got the
impression that she was panicking about him not messaging her back.
She apologized for the late reply. She said that the gym teacher yelled at
her and said he was going to confiscate her phone.
She said that she couldn’t hang out that day. She asked him if he wanted
to go a field party with her the following night.
He messaged back and said that he had to work but he might be able to
stop by for a little bit afterward.
He felt his mood change and the physicality of his stomach change as
well. He felt happy by what she said and the idea of her inviting him. Maybe
she likes me after all. Theo didn’t get a fuckin invite to this thing, ha, 1-0
mother fucker.
That night he watched videos on his laptop for a long time. He watched
videos about the best monitor he could buy for the lowest price and he
watched videos that explained how to win online poker. He read the
comments on the video.
this guy is a fag
dude u gay
gay person here &2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 24
dudes gay
He watched a tv series about a serial killer. He liked it and texted
Vanessa and asked her if she’d ever seen it. She said, haven’t seen lol, can I
text you in a bit? <3
He put on The Blue Nile videos. He didn’t know if Vanessa actually liked
the music or not. The music was slow but there was something broken and
sad about it that made him feel strange and new. He thought it was cheesy
and stupid but it reminded him of Vanessa.
He woke up earlier than usual, but felt exhausted. He tried to fall asleep
again but he couldn’t.
He went to the Chinese bakery that he was at the day before. He bought
a coffee and a pineapple bun. He ate fish soup. He sat on a milk crate for a
long time.
He still wanted to get a new screen to watch videos on, and he thought
of Vanessa coming over, and how they could watch something together and
how cool it would be to watch it on a screen, instead of just off his laptop.
He went to a discount electronics store and asked them about the computer
monitors that they had. He checked the prices and read the features. He
stared at a video of a cheetah running and tried to see the differences of the
monitors. He didn’t love any of them. He knew that the shopkeepers were
annoyed by him, and how much detail he put into this. He couldn’t decide if
he should get a tv or a second monitor. He knew he should just get a
monitor but the tv’s were cheaper and bigger. He got frustrated and left.
He met Alex near the shipping yard. They came from the opposite
direction. Igor thought of the parking lot, and everything that had happened
since he was there last. He felt like that parking lot, essentially hacked his
brain and now he was fucked.
Hey, you got a good monitor man?
What?
Like for your computer.
I don’t fuckin know man.
Igor looked at him, he didn’t know why he was so pissed off. It was
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 25
better, maybe, that he wouldn’t have to talk to his sorry ass. He’d hated
talking to Alex, before, but now that he was quiet, he didn’t know.
He looked at his phone to see if Vanessa texted him. She hadn’t.
They followed the same way they did before. Igor felt that his stomach
was rotting. He was nervous and began to have gas. He tried to get it out
before they went inside without completely shitting himself. He looked at
his cell phone again before they went in.
Alex looked angry at him for being distracted. Carlo let them in. They
walked the same way they did the time before. But this time, Igor kept
farting out of his ass. Alex looked disgusted by him and that he thought he
was pathetic.
Igor’s thoughts were obsessing over Vanessa, he kept checking his phone.
He thought he would spend his money on prostitutes and then he wouldn’t
obsess over Vanessa so much.
Igor tried to hold in his last fart, but it came out. Carlo heard it and
looked around.
Alex whispered, what the fuck bitch?
Dude, nothing.
Control your fucking ass you disgusting fuck.
Carlo shook his head.
He opened the shipping container for Igor.
Don’t shit in the fucking car you jew fuck.
Igor drove out of the shipping yard. He laughed some, as he thought
about all of his farts, but he also felt like he’d really pissed Alex and Carlo
off.
He drove and got a text from Vanessa. It said, lol ur hilarious dude. After
he looked at the text, while driving, he noticed that the gas gauge in the
truck was empty.
Fuck.
He called Alex but he didn’t answer.
God damnit.
There was still twenty five minutes until the location.THE BLUE NILE 26
He pulled into the gas station.
He had to leave the truck running. He used his credit card to start it
going. He fills in as much as he could. The gas attendant came out and
stared to yell at him. He tried to tell them to calm down, it was fine and
they kept yelling at him to turn off the fucking truck. He drove off with the
spout still in the tank. It snapped off as he sped down the road. They saw
the truck didn’t have plates either.
He drops the truck off to the place. He gets the money and they don’t
notice the damage from the gas station.
We're going to club after, you want to?
Ah fuck man, which one?
Dinslugs.
Shit eh. I can’t.
The guy got distracted and walked off.
Igor left with his money.
He texted Vanessa and said, you still around?
Ya. Pls come.
He went into a bar on the way there to take a shit. He sat there and
wrote to Alex.
All good man? couldn’t come to club had to meet a chick
He watched Alex’s dots type but then they disappeared.
He wiped his ass and texted Vanessa before he washed his hands.
K.THE BLUE NILE 27
6
HE THOUGHT OF HUBERT WHEN HE WALKED. HOW THOSE COPS TOOK HIM
from the street without saying anything.
He walked to the field that Vanessa told him to. There were a lot of
people there. Most of them were clustered around a fire pit and the trees.
He didn’t see Vanessa at first and he wanted nothing to do with this crowd.
He thought that he should probably take off. But then he saw her, standing
near some guy in an army jacket. The guy was reading something off of a
piece of paper. He saw in her posture that she looked uncomfortable. She
answered her phone and walked away from him.
Igor slowly walked towards her. She paced in circles. When she saw him,
she stopped and waved. He saw that he made her shy, she gestured for him
to stand near her while she finished the call. After she hung up she hugged
him, awkwardly.
Hey!
Hey.
What’s up?
I messaged you for a sec but then I saw you.
Cool, yah, sorry.
All good.
They were quiet. She looked nervous, but then put on an encouraging
smile.
How did the job go?
It was alright. You? &2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 28
Oh. I wasn’t working.
Right.
She smiled, he looked embarrassed. They were quiet again.
You see that guy in the green jacket?
Yeah.
Stage five clinger.
He good?
I’m like. K?
Dude. Like. He kept talking to me. He told me he’s in my home ec class.
Right.
He’s like, can I read you my lyrics? And I’m like, what?
So he’s reading me these lyrics he wrote for like his band. Like, weird
anarchist shit. I’m like whatever dude.
Right.
I was like, going to fake a call but then Theo called. I’m like thank god.
And he’s like, he just went on this date with Diane. And he needed to tell
me all about it. It was fucked. He took her to like a bee farm? I was like. Uh,
k? And then he bought like a crop of honeycombs? Does that make sense?
He wants to use them in his new restaurant, that doesn’t even exist yet, just
to impress her. So. Like how fucked is that?
Ya, that’s fucked.
They stood awkwardly. She waited for him to respond, but he didn’t. It
made her nervous.
What do you think of this party?
It’s alright.
Yeah.
So like, he offered me a job. Do you think that’s weird?
How so?
I mean, he’s already paying me to help him with everything, but he’s like,
I need you full time. And then I’d be on salary? I guess.
Damn eh?
Yah. And then I could quit the fucking parking lot. Like. Seriously how
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 29
sick would that be?
For sure.
He thought about the money in his pocket. It seemed like a lot when
Alex first asked him about it. But now, compared to this Theo guy, it was
nothing.
Hey, do you want to take off?
Yah, that’d be cool.
Alright ya, fuck this place.
Igor smiled. She walked close to him as they left.
7
THEY SAT IN THE RESTAURANT. HE NOTICED HER EYES WERE BULGY AND THAT
her face was thin and boney. There was something triangular about her that
he found unusual.
He ordered a steak sandwich and she ordered chicken tenders and a
milkshake. They were nervous around one another. They ate their food
slowly.
I don’t think I need college. I’m like, fuck it, basically.
I don’t think I’d do to well. Maybe one day.
You never went?
No.
He felt her judgement.
What would you study?
I don’t know. Something stupid, like interior design, or business.
Right. &2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 30
What about you?
I don’t know. Computers or something. But like. I can learn all that shit
off the internet for the most part.
Exactly.
My sister’s studies at the university.
Oh yeah?
Yah. Science. Neuroscience.
Damn eh. So she’s like... smart smart?
Yah. She’s in love with her professor. I think. Like. She’s following him.
Scandalous.
Yah.
Are they like... together?
I don’t know. I mean. I get it from my mom. We don’t really talk.
You and your sister?
Yah.
Right. I mean. Fuck man, if I had a sister. Whatever.
You got siblings?
No. It’s just me and my dad.
That sounds alright.
Does it?
Yah.
It is. I love my dad. Really. I don’t hate him. Most everyone I know hates
their dad. But I don’t hate him. At all.
That’s good.
What about your mom?
What about her?
You ever see her?
No. Fuck her.
Vanessa smiled and Igor smiled as well.
After they ate, they sat and he drank coffee. She drank some as well, and
he felt close to her, when she drank from his cup.
They split the bill, which he regret, and he walked her to the bus stop.THE BLUE NILE 31
He stood with her until the bus came. And afterward, the world looked
different to him. He was elated. Thinking that she wanted something to do
with him. In what way, he wasn’t sure. But it seemed to ease the suffering
he felt ordinarily.
8
WHEN HE RETURNED HOME, HE HUNG HIS JACKET AND RECOUNTED THE
money he had made. He had a lot of messages waiting from Vanessa. It
seemed that even after the meal, she wanted to continue talking to him.
He saw how much more comfortable she was writing messages, rather
than being in person. He liked writing message with her more than he liked
sitting with her at the restaurant. It was both comforted and disturbed him.
He fell asleep watching videos online. He did not know what he was
watching. It was mindless wandering.
In the morning he saw another flood of messages had come from
Vanessa. It seemed as though she was writing most every thought that
passed through her mind.
She was with a realtor and trying to sort out a space for Theo’s
restaurant. Theo was unable to come to the meeting but she was going to
his condo for dinner that evening. She would then show him all of the
spaces that she saw.
She assured Igor that they were only friends, in case it seemed like
anything else was going on.
She said that Theo was too obsessed with Diane anyways. She said that’s
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 32
all he ever cared about.
After Igor responded she asked him if he thought about her like that.
He looked at the pizza sign from the window. Its neon faded off into the
daylight and made him feel distant from the world.
He felt stupid staring at the light that way, thinking it had any meaning.
He tried not to respond to her message but still he did.
He left his phone at the apartment and walked aimlessly through the
streets. He bought a discounted green juice from a health food store.
He went back to the discount electronics store and studied the monitors
again. He went to a more expensive store and saw that their stock and
prices were mostly the same as the discount one.
When he returned home there were no no messages from Vanessa. He
watched videos on his laptop for a long time, until his neck began to cramp.
He was unable to sleep. Slightly after three in the more, Vanessa wrote
to him. She was in a taxi home. He tried to feel a sense of pride, that when
she was with him she took the bus, like an ordinary person, but he felt
foolish that he didn’t pay for for her taxi home, when they had dinner.
She asked if he wanted to hang out after she was done school the next
day. He was tempted to say no and stop talking to her altogether, but he
didn’t. Instead, he agreed and showed no sign of aversion to her.
He slept for most of the day. Alex messaged him and asked him if he
noticed any issue with the truck’s gas tank. Igor said that there was none.
And he could hear that Alex did not believe him.
He met Vanessa after she finished school. He found he had little to say to
her. She was exhausted from being at Theo’s so late. Igor was intimidated to
ask her if she would come to his apartment, so they walked in circles
through chinatown.
They walked aimlessly, as Igor always did. She wore her backpack and
they went to the discount electronic store. He bought the television he had
been looking at. He wanted to impress her, but she wasn’t sure how she felt
about the purchase that he made.
She talked about Theo again, and finally, he told her he didn’t care about
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 33
Theo. She asked him if they could go back to his place. He didn’t respond
clearly, but he led them back to his apartment.
She sat on his bed and seemed unbothered by the poor shape his
apartment was in.
He was unhandsome by most standards and seeing her in his apartment
made him think she was foolish for being there. She told him to sit beside
her and he did so. He was frightened to touch her. She leaned onto him and
told him that she liked talking to him and that she didn’t want them to stop
messaging. He didn’t respond. She took his pants off and put her mouth
around him. He tried to touch her and take off her jacket but she moved his
hands away from her. She continued and he finished quickly.
They watched videos for some time, he didn’t set up the new monitor, it
sat in the middle of the room. He showed her which ones were the most
funny and strange and he saw how little attention she paid to them. Instead
she kept reaching for her cell phone. When she said she had to leave he
tried to give her money. She was angry and ashamed by the gesture but
tried to withhold showing him that, so as not to embarrass him.
He said that she should at least take some for a taxi and she said that she
preferred taking the bus. He asked if she wanted him to go with with her
and she said that was okay. He felt upset that she didn’t want him to do so.
He tried to assert himself, but he saw how uncomfortable it made her.
He felt a falseness in her actions, she slushed and felt his judgements. He
saw now that she knew the misery that he lived in. She waved awkwardly
and left.
He knew that unlike him, she could not survive on her own. He knew
that he could survive without eating or speaking for days on end. He had
done it before and if he had to do it again, he would.THE BLUE NILE 34
9
HE SAT NEAR THE WINDOW, THE AIR WAS HUMAN AND HOTTER THAN IT HAD
been in a long time. Every so often he would drink water or go onto the
internet and see if there was anything new. As the sun set he saw the
prostitute walk towards the pizza sign. She sat on the ledge of the
restaurant, crossed her legs and stared blankly at the road.
Igor left the apartment, wearing his yellow jacket. He was covered in
sweat when he left the building and crossed the street towards the
prostitute. Her pants were unclean and her shirt looked as though it was
meant to be worn by a child. It seemed she didn’t have the ability to speak.
He did not see a falseness in her like he saw in Vanessa. The prostitute
didn’t put on any airs of sophistication or try to deny her shortcomings. She
followed him back to his apartment building. He held the door open for her
and led her up the stairs.
She took her clothes off and stood near the window. He took his pants
off and repeated what he did with Vanessa. Her expression did not change
when he looked at her. He finished quickly and paid her. She put her clothes
back on and left.
He watched her cross the street and stand back under the pizza sign
again. She didn’t look towards him and he felt impressed by that. He
imagined himself in her position, and thought that he would not be able to
help looking back. He thought she was more stoic and strong than he was.
Her smell had replaced Vanessa’s, he tried to convince himself that he
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 35
preferred it. Soon he looked at his messages again. He saw that Vanessa had
messaged him many times. He thought of how many messages she wrote
when they were together. He didn’t know who she was typing to, but he
knew how banal most of the messages must have been. He felt he was better
than that. He had the ability to keep his thoughts to himself, he could
manage them on his own. Even if they were difficult to handle, he had
learned by not having a choice. He felt that she had the luxury of choosing,
and he felt that her flaw was in not understanding that. There were times in
his life that he did not have a choice but to manage himself, alone. That
allowed him to become strong. So much so that his suffering felt hedonistic.
He felt a smile on his face and saw then, that the prostitute looked at him,
momentarily, before shyly looking away.
10
IGOR SAT AT HIS MOTHER’S HOUSE. SHE SPOKE AT LENGTH ABOUT HOW SHE
worried about his sister’s future. This bothered Igor to no end, but he kept
his mouth shut. She told him that unlike his sister, she knew he was very
strong and responsible. His sister only went into debt, with her endless
years of schooling.
He gave his mother all of the money he had left, after paying the
prostitute. She would use it to help his sister pay off her tuition. She said
that this sister would not be able to survive without him. He knew that his
mother only used the money she needed to survive. There was no one more
frugal than her. Every time he gave her more money he hoped that it would
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 36
ease her worries but it never did.
On the way home he went out of his way to pass the parking lot. He
knew that Vanessa wasn’t working but he wanted to see. He didn’t know
why he had the impulse to do so, perhaps because he thought that she was
lying to him. He thought that maybe Theo was no a real person and that she
was only covering up her pathetic life with stories of grandeur. Igor stood
there and saw that the parking lot, was merely dirt with no discernible
boundary. There was a man there, he sat in a foldable camping chair and
stared at his cell phone.
Igor wrote to Alex and asked him when the next job would be. Alex
responded quickly and told him that things wouldn’t happen again for a
while. He said that they were going to lay low for a while. Igor thought of
the gas tank and didn’t know if that was the reason that Alex had shut him
out.
When Igor arrived home he realized that he forgot to bring the leftovers
that his mother packed for him. He looked in his fridge and saw nothing
except a stale meat but that he’d gotten from the Chinese bakery and some
leftovers his mom had given him two weeks ago.
He spiralled, thinking of the impossibility of working in an office, or a
dishwasher. He could not stand under a glowing sign and fashion himself as
a prostitute. He stayed on his mattress in odd positions for over a day,
sleeping rarely.
He went into the street, wearing his yellow jacket. He had become so
hungry that heh could not move very fast. His head ached and he found it
difficult to hold a thought in his mind.
He went into the supermarket. The smells of the foods around him
seemed to play odd tricks on him. He took a pre made wrap from the
refrigerator. He ate it in the aisle and ignored the people around him. An
employee stood beside him. He didn’t try to hide what he was doing and the
employee did not try to stop him. He dropped the final bite onto the ground
and grabbed a second wrap and ate it as he left the supermarket.
He sat on a round concrete table outside of the supermarket. He felt his
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 37
thoughts slow down. He felt the acids move in his stomach. An insect
landed on his neck and he swatted it off.
He went back to the apartment and took the tv and tried to return it but
they would not. He felt sick to his stomach that he had wasted his money.
When he returned home, he saw a message from Vanessa. It asked if she
could come over to his apartment again.
When she arrived he saw that she worried for him and felt sorry for
how things had gone the last time they saw each other.
He was happy to know that she thought she cared for him, but he knew
that her thoughts mislead her. He thought she had some kind of pain in her,
that she didn’t even realize. She repressed it, ordinarily, but through him she
was able to experience it and that brought her a kind of perverse comfort.
His misanthropic behaviour was unparalleled by anyone else she knew, and
that is why she targeted him as the object of her affection. H saw the way
she obsessed over people, as a way of avoiding confronting the pain that she
held back. He could see how little of herself that she knew. Perhaps she did
not have the opportunity to develop this side of her personality. It reminded
him of the way she spoke about her father, about how she loved him so, and
took care of him since she was very young. He knew that she didn’t know
her mother but he did not know if she was dead or abandoned her, but he
assumed that somehow, it had everything to do with why she was at his
apartment now.
He imagined, as well that it had everything to do with Theo. By
spreading her attention to multiple people, diversifying her assets so she
would never be abandoned again. It would cause her to become who they
needed her to be, at any given moment. Being herself was not an option.
That was who her mother left and it was also a weak little girl who could
not take care of her father. She learned the ability to control him in order to
get what she needed and this skillset was who she was now. Control was
survival to her.
Igor smiled briefly, becoming lost in the thought of it all. He realized
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 38
that he was probably similar to her, in some way that he didn’t understand.
They mirrored one another’s agony and mistaken it for a romantic
connection.
He sat on the windowsill, his mouth agape, staring at her. She asked him
if he was okay and he said that he was.
She told him that she had an opportunity that she thought he might be
interested in. She said that Theo had transferred a large sum of money in
her account so that she could manage things at the restaurant. She told him
that she could pay him herself and he wouldn’t have to go through Theo
directly.
She said that accepting money from Theo was strictly worked related
and the connection she felt with Igor was different. He told her that he
couldn’t work in the restaurant and she said that she knew that but this was
something different.
There was an inner city farm that the restaurant was going to source
their protein from. All of the meat at the restaurant was meant to be
sustainable and native to the area. They needed someone to go to it and
bring the animal to the restaurant to be butchered.
She would give him a monthly rate and his hours would be his own. She
would let him know how much they needed and all he had to do was fulfill
the quote. He understoodrestaurant the reason she was there was for Theo’s
restaurant and that disappointed him, but still, he agreed to take the job.
She hugged him and then kissed him on the cheek before leaving and
told him she’d text him the info later but she had to go.THE BLUE NILE 39
11
HE GOES DOWNSTAIRS AND TALKS TO WINSTON. HE ASKS HIM IF HE WANTED
to go to the club. Winston agrees.
They stand in the cold and finally get in. Theo thinks of castrating
himself. They try to talk to women but don’t get anywhere.
Winston fist bumps him at the end of the night and seems grateful for
the hangout, despite how pathetic it was.
It was four in the morning. He went to the address that Vanessa sent
him. the house was decrepit and boarded up. He walked in and saw the
ground move ahead. He heard prickly fur tangling into other prickly fur.
Black glowing eyes peered at him, the vermin bred incessantly. Some had
cannibalized others. The smell reeked worse than anything he had ever
known. He couldn't walk any further, he stumbled out of the house, feeling
instantly nauseous. The image of the vermin’s eyes and teeth and fur
replayed in his mind. He could not discern what kind of animal it was.
He went to the corner store and took an energy drink. The shopkeeper
threatened his life and chased him through the parking lot. He went into an
alleyway and took a piss, he felt fearful that the shopkeeper would swing a
baseball bat onto him or that one of the vermin would emerge from the
shadows and rip his nuts off.
He stepped into a streetlight, exposing himself to the passing cars. One
of them screamed and wandered cursed at him. He wandered through the
streets thinking of how he could manage the animals. He thought of
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 40
returning to the corner store and taking a box of garbage bags. But his
feeling of inadequacy overwhelmed him to such an extent that he could not
stop walking.
He did not remember noticing the sun rise or much anything about the
walk back to his neighbourhood. Until he saw the Brinx truck idling outside
of the bank.
The driver stayed with the truck while the guard got out and pushed a
dolly into the bank.
Igor followed the guard into the bank and watched him walk past the
counter. Igor stood near the complimentary coffee urn. He filled a styrofoam
cup and drank it.
He watched a woman withdraw an oddly large stack of bills. On her way
out, she smiled at Igor. He smiled as well, between sips of the coffee. He
looked at the bank’s security cameras. One of them was clearly pointed in
his direction.
When the guard came back from the vault, Igor put the coffee onto the
counter and followed him towards the lobby.
The moment the guard left the bank, Igor pushed his face against the
door. He felt the guard’s jawbone against his wrist. The guard did not
retaliate. He submitted immediately, despite himself, but as if that were the
protocol. The guard averted his eyes. Igor lift the bag from the dolly. I twas
so heavy that he was unsure that he had the strength to carry it. He felt his
arm failing, but he did not let go.
He crossed the street without looking back at the bank or the Brinx
truck. He passed his apartment, knowing he would be found there.
As he continued onward the aimlessness that he felt trapped in, was no
longer apparent to him.
The bag of money, which he had no idea of how much was in it, was
enough to get him killed or put into prison.
He felt a sense of relief, despite the sheer intensity.
Finally, heh felt some clarity, that he did not want to get killed or be put
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 41
in prison. The fear made him feel like himself, through the same primordial
goop that allowed form the verminous chaos he ran from, it was the
common shame that he so flippantly knew. That shame defined him, and
revealed itself further when he thought of his mother, senile, impoverished
and alone in her apartment. He knew, that in that moment, with this act, he
had abandoned her in a way that could not be reconciled.
He would be identified by the cameras, by his neighbours. The police
would go to his mother. Any money that he gave to her, now would be
monitored and would incriminate her.
He held the money, desperately, and didn't stop walking, despite how
intolerable the pain became. The moment he stopped, was the moment he
would have to reconcile it all.
12
HE WALKED FAR ENOUGH THAT THERE WERE NO MORE STREETLIGHTS OR
roads. There was only dirt and the sky had become dead and white. Still he
dragged the money with him.
The pain from holding the bag was excruciating. He hoped to see an
insect, some semblance of a companion, but the most life that he saw was a
leafless twig.
During bouts of torrential rain, the dirt became mud and he sunk up to
his knees. He held the bag over his head until his arms had no strength, and
quivered like gelatine.
He lay on the ground in the darkness, he became frightened as the stars
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 42
formed above him.
He burrowed himself under the bag. His spine felt displaced as he lay in
in the dirt. His back felt crippled in his weakness.
He did not know how much time had passed. He saw black eyes
reflecting back at him. He awoke imagining chalky teeth biting into his
ankles. He bit into his hand, gauging when the pain was more torturous
than his hunger.
He felt he was a parasite on the earth. Perhaps that was the purpose, to
cause rot, like an acid.
In his delirium, looking at the stars, he thought that it did not matter
whether his fate was written for him, before he was born, or if the blame
was his to bare. His choices led to an immense failure to seize any
opportunity to be useful, or to have any purpose. Even if he was merely an
acid, he was a weak one and had no right to be feel proud of himself.
When he woke up he was a statue, like some unremarkable god had
defecated onto him or swallowed him whole and then pushed him out as
defecate. His eyelashes flapped flecks of dirt upward.
He was still until he saw the yellow pigment of his jacket breaking
through the dried mud. If there was a god to pray to, it was the god of the
shopping mall that granted him the ability to steal this jacket.
When he began to walk, he did not see the mange fox that followed him.
He did not see its broken teeth or its gold burnt fur. Its tail was merely a
wire it whisped behind him like black smoke.
He thought this would be a rightful death to his unbridled failure of a
life. He bargained with his thoughts, trying to accept his demise as a way of
mitigating his fear, but he could not, and the fear remained.
He awoke beneath a truck and had no recollection as to how he got
there. He rolled out from under it and saw plastic tables beneath a long tent
and an assembly of trucks that were parked nearby. There was a red plastic
cooler. He opened it and found melted ice and two aspartame colas. He
chugged one of them and all and fell the foam of it expand in his stomach.
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 43
He coughed and it felt prickly on his throat. He drooled down either sides
of his mouth. Immediately he felt a burst of hyperactivity and nausea. His
stomach felt like euphoric battery acid, erupting. He did not take his hand
off the money bag handle he remembered then, walking towards this place
and seeing the truck. He sat in the driver’s seat, the bag of money on top of
him between his stomach and the wheel. He drifted off, staring at the
horizon, unable to discern the day from the night. He looked through the
camp and found some sesame snap bars. Most of them seemed to have been
eaten by rodents, but he ate what was left. He walked farther until he came
to a large opening in the dirt, the entrance of a mining cave. A machine
beeped from ahead, a small red flashing light. No one monitored it, he
dragged the bag towards the darkness. He imagined a bat eating his spinal
chord and then, only after thinking that, saw the bats above him hanging,
the machine light blinking and reflecting, until he realized that it was an
illusion and there were no bats above him, only short sprigs of stalactite.
He walked farther, his fear seemed to build and lessen simultaneously
until he fell over a large wooden box. He could not see what it was but felt
the jagged broken wood piercing into his palm and piles of cylinders, at first
he thought they were hardened sausages. He brought some of them towards
the blinking machine light. He wiped the sweat from his eyes and his smile
grew and his laughter echoed throughout the cave. He knelt on the ground
and saw that he had arrived at an incredible supply of dynamite sticks.
He stayed there for a long time until the bats scattered and woke him.
He saw beams of light swivel towards him. He saw that there was a crowd
of people and the lights were built into their helmets.
I would like to buy this mine, Igor said.
None of these miners knew how to respond, until one piped up.
It isn’t ours to sell.
Why not?
Because we don’t even own it.
Then who does?
The man in the helmet named the person and Igor asked how much they
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 44
wanted for it.
I don’t know if it’s for sale. I doubt it is.
I’ll blow it up then. No use for it in that case then.
They stood without speaking, until one of them lost their patience and
walked towards Igor, cursing and furious. Igor lit a match and the explosion
blew through the cave, obliterating them all into warm deli discards, the
money jetting out of the cave, towards the camp like it was blasted from a t-
shirt gun.
Igor awoke again, beneath the truck, still holding the bag of cash. It
seemed that he was only asleep for a short amount of time. He had not
entered it or seen any bats or dynamite and there was no true explosion.
He went back to the tent and could not understand if he had drank the
diet sodas or not. He looked in the garbage can and saw scraps of food on
paper plates. He took them and ate whatever smears of food were left on
them. Oil and sauce and minced vegetables. He became tried again, after
eating the food and lay beside the garbage can to rest.
13
HE WALKED TOWARDS THE CAVERN AND SAW A SMALL LIGHT OFF IN THE
darkness ahead. He carried the bag close to him, holding it against his ribs,
his fingers felt like twigs and like they were snapping like spider legs as they
held the weight.
There was a group of people, sixteen perhaps, wearing long boots and
goretex. He heard the crinkling of granola bar packaging and saw a
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 45
silhouette pushing a large thermometer into the dirt. It was connected to a
screen that showed digital warbling lines.
As he approached, the group saw him walking towards them, and a
heroic one rushed towards him and stopped him from collapsing. More of
them approached him, he muttered something, but was unsure what he said.
His vision tunnelled but he saw that the brand of the man’s jacket was
similar to his. He tried to reach the handle of the bag but collapsed onto the
ground before he could reach it.
Igor sat with them, near a fire and ate chilli. They laughed and spoke
about work related things, they teased one another within reason. Igor
could see that they had sacrificed certain comforts for the sake of
exploration and knowledge. He saw they had the ability to work together
and there was no obvious tyrant or impending tyrant. He saw they shared
an ambition and some kind of moral code. He felt subordinate to them,
knowing he could contribute little to no value.
As he ate the food his body became more sore. It was as if the relief
cause him to finally feel the pain he was in. He sat slack jawed and
sporadically laughed along with them, outing himself as cognitively ill. As
they heard his laugh, some of them were relieved to hear he was okay, but
others heard the hollowness and strangeness in his laugh. As the others took
their dishes and rinsed them in the wash basins he still chuckled in odd
rhythms. One of them gently reached to take his bowl and he held it like a
child and banged on it with a metal spoon. As they took it he dropped it
onto the ground, not out of defiance but he had become infantile and could
not hold his grip. That person, took the bowl from the dirt and saw already,
a trail of ants had crawled to the wet tomato skin in the bowl.
He woke up in some cot. He tried to open his eyes but they were crusted
shut. He panicked and saw only that there was a small fire burning in the
area. He stumbled and went towards the money bag. He took the handle
and dragged it back to him. He felt a soreness and saw a box of juice. A
woman stood in the room, she walked to him and spoke calmly. He was
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 46
frightened of her and tried to ignore what she said. He jumped when she
pierced the straw through the box of juice. She told him to drink it and be
restful. He drank it and his breath deepened and slowed.
She explained to him that she believed his sickness was parasitic. It was
what they studied in the mud. She said that the earth had developed a
perverse reaction to itself. She said they were able to measure it and saw
that it exist in humans as well. It was not that the earth was evil, or that
people were, it was that they were trying to organize the chaos that they
perceived, and in doing so began to self destruct in a perverse attempt to
survive. She said that this territory, was sick like him. And that he had
probably become like this from being exposed to the dirt for as long as he
had.
He reiterated what she said to him and she insisted that he didn’t
understand the nuance or the science of it. She explained the data again and
she saw that he considered her a great fool. Still, he ate the medicine that
she gave to him. He stared upwards towards the ceiling of the tent and
through the stars beyond that. After some time he lifted himself from the
cot. He took a light from the shelf and walked into the night, the money on
his back.
He walked until he could hardly see the camp behind him and then the
rain began and it blinded him. He tried to walk back to the camp but he
could not see in front of him. He felt he was drowning and the rain
persisted but it did not destroy him. When the sun returned he felt cleansed
and perhaps that he had become anew.
He walked back to the camp and saw that the entrance of the mine was
gone. He searched everywhere, but eventually it was clear that none of them
had made it. The earth had swallowed them. As if they were the parasite it
was fighting against after all.THE BLUE NILE 47
14
HE WALKED OFF INTO THE HORIZON. WALKING UNTIL THE DIRT BECAME
grass. It was sparse and patching. He saw the sky became blue. The sun
returned and burned his skin. He felt some joy until the burn irritated his
skin and his blemish began to blister.
He heard there was a wailing cry and he walked towards it. He walked
towards it and saw there was a woman. That was Sara.
She wore a covering over her face it was made from some sheer
material. In the moment he saw her he felt some sense of familiarity in a
way that he could not have expected.
Do you recognize me?
No.
They walked together and Igor felt lifted and in the night they fornicated
near some tree or another.
She had woken up lost from her people some weeks ago.
She told him that when she was born, her people had been travelling
from dead waters towards freedom. She wanted to return to them but she
did not know how she lost them.
She said that she was cursed by her god. She said that her father had lost
faith in their god and her abandonment was his punishment. She said that
she did not know who her mother was. She had many sisters, some of
whose names she did not know.
They found a tree and lay under it. They ate flowers from the grass that
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 48
surrounded the tree and stayed there for many days, until eventually there
was nothing left and they began to walk again.
He felt as though there was nothing human about being with her. He
had transcended into some other thing. He considered the loss of her
entirely. He would not bury her in the ground, only leave her on the grass
beneath the strange tree. She had become child bearing and lost the child.
When he slept she looked at his school and when he woke he had some
strange realization that the money was no longer with him. He had
forgotten about it and it was gone. He asked Sara about the money and she
was astonished. She told him that she knew nothing about the money.
He saw then that her clothes were no longer the rags that they once
were. Instead, they were made of offshore fabrics, built in factories by small
hands and machines. He saw that her face, while still more attractive than
his, was not what it once was.
And now he was deeply afraid of losing her. Even if she betrayed him he
had become very attached to her and would not be able to murder her if he
decided it was the moral thing to do. She loved the bag of money.
When they woke up Sara told him that she had remembered were her
family was. They could find them and help them. They would give them
food and solace. She said they would accept him.
She then saw the blemish on his hand. It had been there for the entire
time but only now did she see it was there. And she was shocked to see it.
She told him that he had been burned by alien fire and he did not know
what she meant by that.
Despite her disgust they fornicated again, for the last time, before they
saw the sprawling line of people ahead. He saw how she looked at them and
was unfazed by the sight of them. He looked at the shape of her nose and
eyes and no longer understood how they were.
He then saw her walk onward, she carried the money ahead. He ran
towards her but she faded off into the horizon, towards the tabernacle.THE BLUE NILE 49
15
THEY STOOD WITH THE CARAVAN OF SARA’S PEOPLE. OF FOUR HUNDRED. AND
they no longer moved. They only waited for their leader to come from
somewhere they didn’t know. That leader had split off from the group and
told them that they would return. And some believed that he would. And
some believed that he proved not be their leader at all. And he had died at
the hand of some weak beast or had wandered off to a new land. And some
believed that to wait, perpetually was the blessing they sought to find.
In all the generations that had passed they no longer remembered what
their leader looked like or what their leader believed. They only
remembered that they were to stay until their leader returned. And that is
when Sara was sent to find the wandering man they saw in the dirt. Who
was with the people who built the mine. And she was sent to find that
wagon that he carried.
Sara was no longer with Igor and he did not know where she went.
He stood near the tabernacle that they had built. A large canvas in cubic
measurements, held by ropes died in colours he could narrowly recognize,
braided with ash and dust.
He waited in the line for many days, staring at the ropes. He saw how it
was tied, but the complications were beyond his understanding. The wind,
no matter how strong, was unable to affect its shape.
The man Igor spoke to was sever and sat in something throne like. But
he was not their leader. Only some priest of bureaucrat. He wore a long
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 50
cloak with a multitude of apex points.
He asked Igor about his paternal lineage and Igor said that he did not
know what it was. They asked him again and he said again, that he did not
know.
They saw the marking on his hand and they asked if he had stepped
beneath the cloud shadow and he told them that he had. They asked him
again and he said again that he had.
They said that they followed the cloud, to a place where the light and
the darkness were not separate from one another.
The altar had flesh hooks and fire pans burning along it, the body of an
ox. And some interval away, a severed sheep, its head and neck nowhere to
be found. The legs of a bull. A donkey roasting, whole, with some turtle
doves.
Igor felt a deep starvation, he watched the meat burn, salivating. He
walked towards those animals and was hit across the face. He was to be
killed in plain sight but the cloaked man intervened and said that he had
been beneath the cloud and while blemished he would live. And they let him
live.
For that reason they did not cast him away. For that reason he would
live among them but would be cast, to fend with those who were not
worthy of servitude.
He saw that the rash bag began to scar and that would be impossible to
remove.
He lay in the dirt amongst the others and slept on a worn animal hide.
The sewage at times seemed to rain up on them as they slept and despite
the heat, Igor wore his yellow jacket over his head. He was protected by this
jacket and he did not dream of Sara but when he was awake he thought of
her relentlessly.
He saw the people that starved around him. The shapes of their bodies
and the sadness on their faces. He nibbled on his hand and felt the tendons
between his teeth.
He smelled the burning of the sacrifices they made in the tabernacle.
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 51
They burned those offerings, even amongst what starved and in the distance
he saw there was a glow of light that was too bright to see.
In the distance he saw that the tabernacle he stood near was one of
many. Each acted as the support of a larger one in the centre of it all.
A man stood next to him and said that if the people were satiated and if
they did not starve there would no meaning for the sacrifice to burn into
the sky. If it was mere excess the sacrifice, meant nothing, and was not holy
at all.
Igor stood, the row of canopies in the market. Cooking stew, drying
hides. Some tailer. Watches. Seldom things useful. Hair dye. And wax and
honeycomb.
He stood and looked over, he walked quickly down the path. Seeking
some refuge. The market continued much farther past where he would have
expected.
He slept that evening somewhere near where he was before he thought.
But he could not decide if it was in the same place. He awoke in the night.
He returned to the market and saw that many of the vendors had closed
their shops but some fires remained. He stood near one and saw that they
held some metal into the fire and built a blade of sorts. He saw the glow of
it and watched the blacksmith.
And some other vendor was baking small loafs of bread. They had saw
Igor and like a pigeon offered the stale crumbs from what had collected
below. Igor ate the crumbs and wept and thought of his mother and
understood he merely a pigeon she fed on her windowsill. And when he lay
to sleep the baker told him to leave and to not sleep where he was.
He walked throughout the night and saw many clouds and was confused
where the moon was.
In the daytime he walked aimlessly eventually returning to the market
again. It seemed there was no escape from that place. He sat on the ground
and they saw he was a beggar but he did not ask for anything and no one
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 52
gave it either.
He saw the line that led to the tabernacle and he stood in it for two
days. And when he came to the entrance they sent him away as a beggar.
He looked towards the smoke of the altar. It was not black like he saw
before. He saw the horizon warble in the heat and the smoke that emit was
odd. He watched it vibrate past the heat and fade off.
He saw there, that there was some animal’s body burning on the altar,
and the animal was near his size.
He returned to the market and he spoke to a man that was old and he
was at one time. The man’s face looked abnormal to him. His small eyes and
big teeth. Like he was born in the sand.
Igor quivered as he spoke. He told the random guy that he was going to
die.
The guy said that he was not going to die and laughed at Igor.
Igor explained that the man misunderstood him and that he was going
to die, not the man.
The man said that he understood what Igor meant.
Igor said that he would appoint the man as his successor. The man
looked at him and laughed in his face and asked if he dared appoint him as
his successor. An unwavering sadness came over Igor. He saw that all of the
people in the market saw him now as a stain.
Igor went back to the tabernacle line and waited in it for three days.
And when they turned him away, as a beggar, he offered himself as a
sacrifice. And they would not hear him. He then felt as a stain and as an
abscess. He saw the people lying in the dirt. How they waited for something
to happen. How they could not do anything to survive. And he realized he
was amongst them, with no allies.
In this realization he was faced with a certain instinct. To not be taught
with the rope and he saw the sacrifice that was made in the tabernacle. He
saw the turtle doves flapping somewhere off where the heat warbled in the
horizon. He saw the unblemished virgin animals.
He went to the market and bartered with the man there. For some large
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 53
sports gloves that he could wear. The fingers were padded and would guard
him from the animal teeth and would cover the blemish on his hand.
He told them he was a thief and would steal them in the night if they
did not give them to him for a double interest rate. They gave him the
sports gloves. He wore them and walked away from them and walked into
the dirt.
He looked upward at the black night sky. He listened to the silent dirt as
it became sand and the sand blew into his eyes and blinded him. He crawled
through it for days until finally he saw a flock of turtle doves, circling one
another.
What are you doing, in this dirt field? he asked the turtle dove, but they
did not respond. They only hopped upwards.
He asked them differently, what are you doing in the field of sand?
Still they had no answer.
He crept near them for one day and reached towards the one that was
unblemished. And he caught it by the neck. Another pierced its beak into
his arm. He screamed and held onto that turtle dove, continually, the other
turtle doves swarmed him and pierced into his skin. He screamed until they
became still. He felt the turtle dove move in his hand.
He looked at it and he did not know how to kill the bird. To set it free
and watch it fly into the sun or to fly back with the others, to bring it alive
to the market, to burn and eat, to kill or bring to the tabernacle and burn it
senselessly, sacrifice it in the name of some cloud.
He walked back to the market, assuring at any cost that this turtle dove
remained unblemished, he held it in his yellow jacket.
Men he passed in the field saw him and they did not attack him. They
saw hi was a beggar with no turtle dove. They saw that he would be burned
alive by the sun, as a senseless wanderer.
In the night he returned to the baker and confided in him that he had
the turtle dove. The baker said to give him the turtle dove and he would
cook it into a loaf that they could split equally. But Igor showed the baker
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 54
that the turtle dove was unblemished and seeing that, the baker gave him a
quarter loaf of semolina. He said to Igor that if he brought an unblemished
turtle dove to the lineup of the tabernacle he would be greatly awarded, if
he was not blemished himself. The baker knew that Igor was blemished. In
gratitude Igor said that they would eat the turtle dove in the loaf with the
semolina but the baker said, that knowing the turtle dove was unblemished
it would be a sin to do so.
Igor went to the tabernacle lineup and found a man that stood in it. He
showed him the turtle dove and sold it to him for a sack of copper coins.
The person was joyful to have the unblemished turtle dove, to sacrifice. But
they did not know that Igor himself was blemished.
Igor went back into the dirt and caught yet another unblemished turtle
dove. He hid it in his jacket again, but this time the men heard the copper
coins that he had. They asked him for the coins and he did not look at
them. They pushed him onto the ground and saw the unblemished turtle
dove that he had. And he showed them he would eat the unblemished dove
in their shadow if they did not set him free and they became afraid of that
sinful act and set him free.
He returned to the market and saw that he had an unblemished ox and
everyone in the market stared at him, in great honour. He brought it the
baker and the baker killed the ox, he could not resist the amount of meat
that it would provide. And in the morning he saw that the baker was
covered in blemish. Before he died he told Igor that to fear the cloud, their
god was an act of bravery, because now he understood its reverence and
then he died.
Igor stayed with the baker and the ox as they rotted into the dirt. And
eventually Igor became lost from the market and the tabernacle. He moved
towards an insignificant death and realized his adventure was futile. He
remembered the kindness Vanessa showed him. And the kinds his mother
showed him. And the kindness that Sara showed him. But most of all he
remembered the prostitute and he held that memory most dear.THE BLUE NILE 55
16
AT TIMES HE FOUND HIMSELF MOTIONLESS, STARING UPWARDS IN THE
daylight wondering where the stars had gone. He could not sense a god that
could help him. He vowed that he would accept any god, even at discount
quality, if they would help him. He walked further and the dirt became dead
grass. He blew snot from his nose and for some hours stood near a cliff and
looked below, facing what he thought would be a sure death. Perhaps the
discount god had lead him here. The drop would answer his prayer and
answer his prayer. He walked near the edge and thought of the cliff’s mercy.
He thought of his mother, in her kitchen. The city heat and the noise of
the radio playing in the background. He felt a soreness and a paralysis, he
felt as if he were in a purgatory between the end of his life and the memory
of his mother. He could not reconcile, and he could not overcome it. He was
too weak to accept the wish that had been granted to him, and the vow that
he had made, was rendered useless. His word had no value, not even to this
discount god.
He felt a large rash on his forearm, his skin seemed to shed and blow off
in the dirt. Within a brief moment the blemishing worsened and grew. He
felt the hair from the top of his head had ceased to grow. He wore the hood
of his jacket, his beard had grown long and pierced out from the opening.
He looked infantile and knelt in the dirt, like a goblin, and saw a broken
piece of plastic at the bottom of the cliff. He stared at it until he saw that it
was a broken bicycle helmet. He did not see any dead man or any bones, or
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 56
any bicycle. And it occurred to him that perhaps this discount god had
showed him that while he did not have the strength to die.
Finally, the mange fox stood near him. He saw that the fox’s eyes were
almost entirely crusted closed, it seemed that perhaps the fox did not have
eyes at all. He knelt by the fox and a vertigo overtook him. The fox stepped
towards him and he walked backwards, towards the edge of the cliff.
He spoke to the fox and tried to convince him that he was a friend. He
spoke to the fox and asked him what he was up to. He spoke desperately to
the fox and saw, eventually that the fox had been separated from its people,
like he had been from his. The tribe of foxes, had followed a cloud, towards
water and freedom. He learned that the fox’s father was an atheist eventually
became widely known as a false prophet. The fox never met his father but
still he was burdened with a life of reconciling his sins. The fox, his father’s
only son, was exiled from the tribe, as punishment. And Igor wondered,
now if perhaps his exile too was merely the result of his father’s sins.
He looked at the foxes shadow and saw how it changed in the light. The
fox came near him and opened its mouth and bit into his hand. He cried to
the fox and told him not to hurt him. He begged him to speak to him.
Together they could survive, and find redemption, but the fox would not
stop and so he beat the fox with his other fist and crushed its windpipe with
his torn sneaker. He wept, seeing that he had killed the fox. He wanted the
fox to have been his friend, but the fox could not overcome who he was.
And he saw that he could not either.
He had no ability to create fire and his attempt to eat the fox’s flesh was
unsuccessful. Instead, he built an altar for the fox and left it to rot, as a
sacrifice to whatever discount god found it first.THE BLUE NILE 57
17
HE WALKED THROUGHOUT THE NIGHT AND SAW MANY CLOUDS OVERLAPPING
one another. He tried to follow one, like he imagined the fox had. He could
not decide if his intuition was random or if it was a righteous compass. It
may lead him astray, but he had no other path to follow.
The grass had become more yellow and the smell of gasoline and trash
overcame him. He saw into the distance. There was some building and a
large monument of a brass two headed fox. He looked at the shadow that it
cast and the sun that reflected off of it. He looked towards the statue and
dreamt of destroying it. He saw how the fox reigned over everything that he
saw. He felt a fear overcome him, something that was bigger than himself.
The reverence he felt, was the only reality that he could trust, at this point.
He walked into the building, as a beggar, he nibbled on his hand and felt
the tendons between his teeth. His sneakers destroyed, his socks destroyed,
his toenails broken and twisted, he still wore his yellow jacket, and his
underpants. As he entered he saw that his manhood had protruded from his
underpants. He made a discreet adjustment to mask his shame. And he
realized then, that shame identified him as himself, finally. and followed the
scent towards the food court. The smell of the fire and burning flesh made
him salivate and he felt an intense starvation. He saw the meat rotating on a
skewer, the heat blurred his vision. He saw stews, dried hides, a tailor, hair
dye, wax and honeycomb, cell phone cases and adapters.
He tried to speak to a man, who was a baker, but his voice quivered
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 58
maniacally and even Igor didn’t understand what he himself was trying to
say. The baker laughed at him and saw that he was a stain, or an abscess to
the students who populated the food court. Igor tried to think of a sacrifice
he could contribute to the market but he was lost.
He was in the restroom drinking the water from the sink and washing
his head with it. He sat on the toilet for a long time and slept.
There was a computer terminal in the library. He sat and looked up
some videos that he remembered. There were many new videos and he wept
as he watched them. After all of the time being away from a computer, he
was overwhelmed by the thrill of it. He typed in Vanessa’s name and saw
many pictures of her. She looked older, and more wealthy. He saw her
working at a restaurant and he saw her on vacation, surrounded by clear
blue water and palm trees. And she saw she was with Theo after all.
He typed in his sister’s name. He clicked the words and they lead him
through a scrolling labyrinth, inevitably he came to the name of the
professor who she had followed to this forsaken place. He continued to click
and found the department and the hall where the professor would be.
He stood outside of the room, dozing off under the air that came
through the ventilation system. Eventually the students in the room left and
he saw his sister. She was extremely angry to see him, she showed no sense
of relief or joy. She hit him and felt how frail his body was. She dragged
him through the hall, his sneakers screeched along the floor.
She put him into her car and drove him to her apartment . She cursed at
him the entire way and told him he smelled like piss and vomit and shit and
that he was a disgusting asshole.
At her apartment she gave him an energy bar and a juice box and forced
him into the shower. She gave him clothes, he wore her jeans and a t-shirt.
She laughed at him and told him she thought he looked like a prostitute.
He watched his sister put some scrap breadcrumbs on the windowsill,
like his mother used to. Soon a pigeon arrived, and then another and
another. He watched their wings flapping and saw one that was
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE BLUE NILE 59
unblemished and worthy of sacrifice. He thought of reaching forward and
capturing the bird, and bringing it to the fast food court at the university
market. He could sell it to the baker there. But the thought became
distracted when he remembered the pizza sign from his old apartment
window.
She cooked meat in a pan and when he ate it he tasted his mother’s
cooking. He drooled and gnawed at his hand and she hit him with the
spatula. She served him the food and he ate it quickly. She called him a
fucking idiot and told him that she hated him. He looked up at her and
smiled.

























































THE IDIOT TREE
1
THE SYCAMORE TREE. THERE IS NO TELLING ABOUT IT. I HAVE CHOPPED DOWN
the tree. I have cut it down with an axe. It took me seven hours.
It was the first tree I ever cut down in my life. I regret doing it but I had
to know what it was like.
Inside of the last box. The neptune peach box. It was covered in ants.
And I did not know what to do with the tree.
I wanted the ants to go onto the tree. And for them to carry it off and
deal with it. But they didn’t care about the tree. I don’t know if they even
realized it exist.
Those fucking ants. They moved across the ground as some kind of
haunted shadow. I am drinking water now. I am trying to figure out what to
do.
Those ants were all over the neptune peach box. I took it and tossed it at the tree stump. The ants exploded around. And then, like going in reverse,
they all went back to the box.
I have imagined how the ants have eaten parts of my body when I am
sleeping. I have imagined waking up with my half of my nose and the
bottom of my face eaten off by ants. No mouth.
I went into town. To the supermarket. I was unsure what to buy. I
bought five cans of soup. It seemed they were chicken noodle. I brought
them home. I ate one.
I stared at the can for a long time. The sharp edge of the lid stuck up
there. I felt scared that I would lose control of myself and try to squeeze it.
Or try to cut my arm with it.
I sat and stared at the soup can for the entire evening. Trying to assure
control over my hands and my self. But the urge, and the thoughts did not
subside.
In a fury, I took the can to the cliffside and before I tossed it off, I cut
my hand, above my wrist and below my thumb. It was a narrow cut. And
the pain was minimal. There was hardly any blood. The can went down.
And then, I went and found that neptune peach box and I tossed it off
the cliff to. All of those ants, flying down like little bastards.
I went back and I found that sycamore tree. I pushed it through the
other trees, through the dirt and off the cliff. Goodbye you damn sycamore
tree. It flew down and smashed that neptune peach box to bits.
And there was all that crap. The can of soup, the busted neptune peach
box and the sycamore tree. Lying there at the bottom of the cliff. I felt good
then, looking at it all there.
I found myself, without realizing it neccesarily, with my thumb over that
soup can cut. I began to feel sad then. I don’t know why. I stood and
thought about it, watching the sun fade off, like a coward. But I did not
come up with any answer.
I have hoped my entire life, that I am not a fool. But it is apparent to me
sometimes, that is all I am. But in my defense, if I am so dumb, how could I
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 3
know I am a fool. What a sign of intelligence. To see my own stupidity.
I sat back in the kitchen, of my cabin, and thought of this. I wanted to
extract the thought from my mind, I imagined it as a yellow orb. My
intelligence, the part of my thoughts that knew I was a fool.
If it is possible to know, what I don’t know, then I could be in business.
I could go back to the city one day. I could... no. I had to stop the thoughts.
There was the idiocy again. Thinking I could go back there.
I had thought of growing mushrooms. I thought I could bring them to
the city and sell them, at the farmer’s market. I considered talking to
someone about it, but I became too frightened. What kind of fool would I
be. Selling mushrooms like that. Thinking I could grow any mushrooms that
people would want.
That is how I came to the sycamore tree. I had seen some mushrooms
growing there. I think. I knelt down and looked at them and didn’t think
much of them at first. But as I walked along, I thought that maybe I could
grow them. I tried to deny the thought at first but it wouldn’t stop. So I
went back. But someone had eaten it. A deer maybe. I never caught the
fucker.
I was so angry, I went back and found that neptune peach box. I set it
up, with some piece of minced chicken in there and waited. For days. When
I came back I saw the whole trap I’d made was covered in ants. And that is
when the dreams began. But no longer. Not after I tossed all that crap off
the cliffside.
It takes a lot of strength being as dumb as me. It takes a lot of courage
facing the day, knowing how bad I’ll mess things up. That much I must
admit. I have that yellow orb of intelligence and I have the courage to leave
my cabin. For that I am proud.THE IDIOT TREE 4
2
I AM STANDING IN THE WOODS. THERE ARE MUSHROOMS HERE. TWO KINDS.
Some that grow out from a tree, they are more flat like. And others that are
spotted in the dirt. I suspect that the ones growing from the dirt are more
valuable. But I will have to take both to see. I tore off some of each and
brought them back home.
They are here in front of me. I will cook them and eat them. If I die,
then I die. If I get sick. Then maybe I will die. I don’t know what will
happen. First I will eat the spotted one.
I fried it and the oil I used absorbed into it quickly. I ate a small amount.
I am sitting here waiting. And nothing much has happened. I felt some
bubbling in my stomache. They did not taste like much. I will wait to digest
them completely before having the next set.
In the meantime I will listen to the radio. This music is idiotic and
boring. For the most part. The only news I can get off this thing is staticky
that I can barely make it out. I think I will go into town and call my some
friends. But what if I need to use the restroom. I will have to use the phone
near the diner. Unless they won’t let me. Maybe I will stay here. And I don’t
want to see Donna. If she is working. She makes me damn nervous. It will
be better if I stay here. And wait to digest. I stood outside, watching the sun.
I am thinking about the piping of the house, as I am thinking about the
piping of my stomache. I feel half like an idiot and half like I cannot resist
the task.
I went back to the cliff, I found the route to the bottom of it, it was
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 5
muddy and my boots kept getting stuck. It’s a trade off with those rubber
boots, I probably should have worn my hiking shoes. But they would have
got all muddy. I feel like a coward. But I brought my axe and I chopped the
tree that I cut down into firewood. I will come back later, with the
wheelbarrow to bring it all back. I did not digest anything. This entire time.
Being alone has not gotten much easier as I thought that it would. Some
days I am able to manage, but others it just gets worse. I thought of how
careful I was, going along the cliffside and I am having the thought, over
and over again, how much easier it would be if I hadn’t.
I don’t want to talk any more about it. And I’m not waiting for these
mushrooms any longer.
I took the second set of mushrooms and fried them, carefully. I added
some chilli pepper to them. They tasted disgusting. I mixed them with
mustard and it helped some. It was sad to see how little mustard was left. I
sat in my chair and waited. I was beginning to doze off.
In the grass, the water pooled higher and now I was happy to wear my
rubber boots. There was a woman there, I could not see her face. She wore
a neon ski jacket, it was ripped. Her hair was scratchy and like mine, but
lightly colored and long. And then I had become a snake in the water and
moved through the pipes of what may have been my own house or my own
stomach. We slept together, I don’t know where and still I could not see her
face. Never had I felt such a sense of elation and bliss. I tried to wake up.
But I couldn’t. I arrived at some outpost. It was a red shipping container,
connected to it was plywood extension, above a hole that was the restroom
and then a half finished deck.
I did not know where the woman went. And when I realized that she
was gone a strange priest stood ontop of the plywood extension and went
on about his understanding of all people, even those who were complete
idiots.
When it was finally my turn to speak to the priest, he asked me who I
was.
Joshua Hillel Barsky. I said. &2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 6
I other words, no one, he said.
Yes.
What business do you have here?
I was led here. By a woman. Her face was blurry.
Do you mean Princess Peach?
No.
I will banish you until you become righteous.
I put my head in my hands. Two guards came towards me and I tried to
get away from them. I panicked and thought they would stab me to death.
But they did not. Instead they through the dirt.
I came to and saw the last moment of the sun on my face. I had not
even eaten all of that mushroom. I felt calm and elated. I felt like I had
taken the greatest nap of my life. The images from the dream that I had
stayed with me.
I took my notebook and began to write about what had happenned. I
drew some diagrams as to how the dream was mapped out. I tried to
discern if there was any meaning to it. I don’t know if there was any. I sat
with the fire, burning the final logs that I had. I slept in my comfy chair for
most of the night, by the fire. In the morning I took my wheelbarrow to the
cliffside. The mud had dried from the sun. I looked at it and saw that it was
yellow, unlike how it was in my dream. I took the wood back to the cabin.
It was quite soft and I was unsure how it would burn. Moths flew from it
and I wondered if they would kindle the fire.THE IDIOT TREE 7
3
I SAT IN THE DINER, IT WAS SNOWING. I WAS EATING FRIED EGGS AND POTATOES
and beans. I was drinking unlimited coffee refills. The mop was leaned
against the wall, the server left it there in the bucket to go outside and
smoke.
A man and a woman sat in the booth behind me. I listened to them talk.
He was a truck driver, and was in love with a woman in florida. He’d
bought a ring and was planning to propose to her, but he said he thought
he’d chicken out. The woman told him that he should do so. They were
quiet, I heard them whisper something and then they got up. I saw them
both in the mirror above the bar. The man had a long beard, he had a large
stomache and was probably in his fifties. She was probably half his age,
maybe a bit older. I only saw the back of her head, but I saw her jacket and
it seemed familiar to me.
I think they went into the restroom, presumably to have sex or some
equivalent, and then they came out and he gave her a bunch of bills and
paid for their meal and then they took off.
The waitress came back. I thought her name was Donna but I think her
name was actually Heidi. Maybe she was wearing someone else’s name tag
before. I don’t know.
I didn’t respond to her question. It was like I had forgotten how to
speak. I think she understood. I kept eating, dumping ketchup onto my
potatoes. She filled my coffee again.
On the way back home I saw that the woman, from the diner. She was
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 8
shivering and standing near the payphone. She looked broken up, I hadn’t
noticed before, but it looked like her jacket was very similar, if not identical,
to the one that I saw that woman wearing before back at the outpost.
We got to talking. She was soft spoken and kind. I didn’t ask her what
the matter was, or why she was standing there on her own, in the cold.
She came back to the outpost with me. I kept looking at her face, and
trying to recognize her, but I couldn’t place it. I couldn’t remember what
the woman from my memory looked like.
She stayed with me at the outpost. We slept together so many times I
lost count of it all. She was small and calm and she went hours without
speaking and then would ask me questions that I had never thought of.
At first I thought she was a prostitute, but then I realized that she might
be some kind of psycologist. I was unsure if I was meant to pay her or not.
Either way, I didn’t have much money left. I thought once she figured that
out, she’d take off, but I was wrong. She didn’t seem to care much about
that. She didn’t seem to care much about anything. I remember she once
looked out the window for an entire day, she was staring at the wind or
something.
Eventually the winter ended and she sat outside often, on the deck.
She was working in the garden. She was fixing the dirt and making it
into something workable. I stood in the sun and looked out into the field,
over the cliffside. It seemed as though I had found enough peace for a
lifetime. It seemed as if that was the height of what I would have excepted
in my life. It was as good a feeling as I ever would have thought possible.
Even more so, in fact. It was maximum content. I was elated, there. With
her there, the therapist, or prostitute or gardener or whatever she was. It
would have been good to have died then. Just to have pulled the plug on it
all. But I suppose that kind of hedonism. Maybe. I don’t know. To lose it all,
or for it to change. Whatever illness or death or change lay ahead. Was there
any virtue in whatever suffering lay ahead? Was that a rationalization. I
knew that it was. To create something noble through some sacrifice. Was it
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 9
really necessary for this to mean anything?
I told this to her, in so many words. And she said, well why not shoot a
baby in the head the moment it learns to laugh?
She smiled, and glowed under the sun. I laughed at that and was shocked
to hear it. It shut me up.
I wondered then if she was pregnant. That glow was curious. Perhaps it
was love. If I didn’t love her then I’d never loved anyone. And I remembered
some idiots saying they had never been in love before. That was one I didn’t
understand. I would call bullshit on that, no matter who you were. That
isn’t the way it works. I can carve that in stone. Perhaps you misunderstood
what it means to be in love, thinking like that. It’s hybolic and self obsessed,
and a protective barrier, thinking you never were in love. I don’t see it
otherwise.
I found a game boy under the deck one day. I thought there was some
kind of critter down there. I was just playing a game that wasn’t even that
good. But it seemed like the rest of the world just went off and I didn’t care
anything about it. I just was trying to fight monsters in outer space. And I
couldn’t stop. I couldn’t beat that game either. Eventually I just got bored
and forgot about it. But when I did, she was gone. And it became winter
again.
I went back to the diner most every day. At the same time, always
waiting for her to come back. But she never did. So that’s why I’m always
going to the diner. Sitting here. Getting coffee refills. Waiting for her to
come back. Staring at the mop bocket while the server’s out smoking in the
cold.
That woman, Annie. I missed her a lot every day. Sometimes it seems
like I’ve been thinking about her for hours and hours, and then I sleep and
when I wake up in the morning I know that it didn’t end then either. It’s
exhausting and the pain of it all makes me wish that I was dead. I don’t
know what it is in my wiring, and maybe I’m not the only one, but I don’t
know what it is, that made me lose her. I remember once jacking off like a
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 10
fuckin idiot in the back of the outpost. Even when she was there. I know I
was a piece of shit, but the problem is, even if I had the chance to do it
again. Sometimes I pretend like I could change, but I know that at the end
of the day, I wouldn’t. It’d probably end up the same. As it does.
4
THE SYCAMORE WOOD BURNED WELL ENOUGH. I ROASTED SOME BEANS IN IT. I
was looking at the stars for a long time. Trying to find some meaning in
them.
In the morning I used the truck and went to costco. I bought two flats
of beans, and corn and a fleece sweatershirt. I was looking at the fish for a
long time, but I didn’t buy any in the end. I bought a hot dog from the
restaurant.
I filled up at the gas station there. The drive back was uneventful. There
were small flakes of snow. I wanted to stop at the diner but I didn’t. I was
trying to let it go. I hadn’t been in months. But I still wanted to see her
there. I wanted her to say that she didn’t know why she left, but she was
back again. My mind went in all kinds of directions, trying to solve it. The
truth of it was that she didn’t want to stick around. There wasn’t much else
to it. I thought that I would go home and watch a movie. But I saw a truck
on the side of the road. I recognized it. A white cube truck. I saw a guy
standing there, checking the tire. It was the guy with the long beard that
was with Annie when I first met her.
I drove past him at first. But then I stopped. And reversed.
Hey man. &2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 11
He nodded.
You good?
Ha. Good enough. Damn thing peter’d out.
You need a tow?
Worth a shot.
Alright.
We chained his truck up to mine and then after enough revving we got
him out of there. The snow was going sideways and whiting us out.
Appreciate your help in that.
I nodded. He took off down the road. I waited in the truck seeing if the
storm would calm. I could see his hazards orbing ahead, eventually fading
off along the highway.
I went to the diner again. The waitress. Heidi or Donna, I forget her
name wasn’t there. It was another woman who I didn’t recognize. She was
young and I figured it might have been her first job. I sat at the counter. I
was feeling like I already spent too much money that day. But I ordered a
coffee.
I waited out the storm. There wasn’t anyone else in there. She mopped
the entire place. She cleaned every table. She passed by and smiled at me
and I looked away.
More coffee?
Sure.
She filled the mug. I didn’t say anything.
The other server came in, Heidi or Donna or whatever her name was.
They talked for a bit. Heidi asked her if she had a way home. She said that
she was just going to walk. Heidi asked her if there was someone she could
call, it was really bad out there, she shouldn’t be walking. But there wasn’t
anyone.
I stuttered and offered a ride. She tried to say that it was okay and she
didn’t want me to go out of my way but I said it wasn’t an issue. She looked
at Heidi and Heidi nodded.
We talked about whatever on the way home. It was a slow conversation.
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 12
She lived in an apartment building that wasn’t too far out. She invited me
in.
We ate chips and sat on the couch and watched TV. At some point she
turned over and took her top off. We kissed for a long time before going to
the bed. I was too in my head to have sex at first, but after some rolling
around and more kissing I was ready and I finished quickly. The TV still
played in the background I remember the light flickering off the wall and
onto her ass. I became hard again and we went again, I didn’t last very long
that time either. Her breasts were a lot bigger than I would have thought.
When we finished that time, I could see through the window that the storm
was over.
She told me that I could stay if I wanted. I slept for a few hours and in
the morning we were both a bit shy and awkward. But she was still kind to
me and I appreciated that. We ate some eggs and toast for breakfast. I took
off and on the walk back to the truck, there was snow up to my knees.
I went back and buzzed her thing again. I asked her if I could get her
phone number and she said ok and read it through the intercom. I told her I
didn’t have a pen and I might forget it. She told me to hold on.
She came down the stairs and gave me a piece of paper with her number
on it. Seeing her again, I did like her. But I could see then, it was obvious
that she would find someone better one day. She could probably have any
guy she wanted. Once she got to know me, and saw who I was, she’d find
someone better.
I spent a good amount of time shovelling snow that day. I was in some
post crush phase and my thoughts felt airy and like they were drenched in
some opiate painkiller. I realized those mushrooms were going to get
wrecked in the cold. I put on all my winter gear and went out there, to the
cliff and dug out which ones I could.
Standing there looking at the cliff, thinking about how I was before. I
didn’t know what to make of it all. I could see how heavy things were then,
and how that felt far away now. I got as many of those mushrooms as I
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 13
could find and walked back.
5
AT TIMES I’M STOPPED BY A SUDDEN PANIC, THAT I HAVE FORGOTTEN
something of desperate importance and that I’m completely fucked. And
that there is no second chance. Like there is a dull cactus inside of my
stomach. A heated tightening of the chest. A desperation of some kind of
guidance or assurance. When I was young there was a kind of curiousity to
it. I didn’t know what would happen if I neglected the things that I didn’t
want to do. I learned that the answer was nothing. Time would pass, and
nothing would happen. And eventually I found myself, alone, in the woods
for the most part. Playing chicken with how long I could go without seeing
anyone at all. It seemed there was some virtue in it. I had assumed that was
the case. But it led to a life of dull weakness. I saw, and continue, for the
most part to see little to no meaning or use in doing anything aside from
collecting food and not freezing to death. But even that, alone, I am not sure
it’s enough. Without anyone. Truly it is impossible to find meaning. I have
found in these times, knowing that there are no people around. And even if
there are people around, knowing it will be impossible to connect to them
in any meaningful way. That a delerium and almost psycosis begins to
emerge. And that is, the belief, or precise obsession or hope of something
supernatural. The presense of the god from my childhood.
It is, perhaps an uninvited thought, but one that was coded into my
worldview at such an early age that I cannot forget it. It is not the
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 14
judgement I fear, but moreso the fear of disbelief. I know that over the years
I am simultaneously seperated from the worry, for the most part, but there
are times when it is different. There are times when I haven’t spoken,
meaningfully with another person for long enough that it comes back in
ways that are stronger than I would have ever thought. And even though I
deny the supernatural aspects of it, it doesn’t matter. I don’t need to
understand the technology of a telephone to believe that it is real. And
truthfully, I don’t need to neccesarily believe that it’s real to use it. I know
that my delerium has taken me to places that are on the far reaches of many
and most. I am thankful that I have always been able to find my way back,
for the most part, at least as far as I can tell. But I feel it has nothing to do
with my strength, or any particular choice I’ve made. It is the luck of the
draw.
When she admit to me that she had missed her period, I am unsure what
I felt but I know what I thought. She had taken a few tests, one from the
dollar variety store and another from the pharmacy, and they both
confirmed the same thing. She was in fact pregnant, and I was in fact the
only person she had slept with in a year. In fact I was only the second
person she slept with in her life. In theory, her pregnancy. I suppose it
would have been the will of god. But it didn’t seem so. Not at all. Whatever
it was, miscarriage, abortion or healthy infant, there was no plan, there was
chaos, alone. I was sure of that. In fact, in those early days, I was often
confused as to which one of the women I had slept with I had even knocked
up. I was still so fixated on Annie that I didn’t have the mental capacity to
even discern the difference between her and the woman I met during the
snow storm. And the truth was, I think I liked this new one better. I didn’t
know her as well, but she struck me as more sensible and realistic. Neither
of those traits were ones that I felt that I had any right to.
How pathetic it is, me, trying to come to any understanding about all of
this. The priveliged life that I come from. There is no amount of suffering
that I could endure that would allow me to truly understand anythign of
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 15
any use to anyone but my own pacification and self indulgence. I am
pathetic, without metaphor. The word is enough.
I know that this kind of self pity is an indulgence, or some kind of
attempt to mitigate it all, to understand it. To intellectualize it so that I can
keep it at bay. And I suppose that is where the awe is. The awe that only the
idea of a god could allow me to contextualize. I am unsure if I am meant to
surrender to that, in whatever way I can understand or to continue fighting
for my own strength and independence. I was told, by Annie, that the sign
of intelligence is the ability to hold two opposing thoughts at once. If I am
honest, I am too stubborn for that. I am too stubborn for both things to be
true.
In the past month I have spent a lot of time at the other woman’s
apartment. Her name is Tiffany. In a way I don’t want to admit that, as you
have probably been able to see. I don’t know why I am adverse to it, or
afraid.
I am weary of my thoughts and moods. Now that I have been with two
women in such a short amount of time. I am not the type to manage
multiple love affairs, and I surely was not through with Annie. But now that
Tiffany has come along, I am far less concerned with her. In fact I feel like I
can spit on the connection I felt to her. For her to have left like that,
without warning or reason. Whatever her reason was, I know that even the
most compassionate and forgiving side that I can muster, would still
encourage me to tell her to go fuck herself, at the end of the day.THE IDIOT TREE 16
6
I BROUGHT A CRATE OF THE MUSHROOMS IN MY TRUCK. I DON’T KNOW HOW
long it had been since I’d gone to the city. But it made me anxious thinking
about it.
Driving along the highway at times brought me great joy. Sometimes
there was a sense of peace and awe. And every song on the radio is filled
with deep meaning. Other times, like then, it was desolate and meaningless.
The city was as familiar as it ever was. The grey of it. The weather and
the dead of it. It reminded me of how I was, what I brought to the woods.
Now I only wanted to return home. But when I was there, calling it home,
seemed like an offense.
Passing the market and seeing the novelty that it was, caused some kind
of shame in me and I didn’t stop. I didn’t want to involve myself with that.
There was some kind of blind hapiness that I saw, the colors of the posters,
and the frivolousness of the customers and the hidden desperation of the
vendors. I did not have the humility.
Seeing my reflection in a shop window, I felt ashamed of myself and that
I looked like a fool and an embaressment. Immediatley I felt I could go to a
store, and perhaps, buy a new jacket. Or by seeing a barber, that could help.
I stood and held the crate of mushrooms, the wind blowing the stained
pillowcase I used to cover them. To protect them from the world. I had
already paid for parking for half and hour and I didn’t want it to go to
waste. I stood on the sidewalk, a couple, who were holding hands, let go of
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 17
one another to avoid me. I looked away from them.
I veered off of the highway and parked, this time I paid nothing to leave
my truck where it was. I walked through the yellow of the field. I wanted to
walk until I found some understanding, or remembered myself. I didn’t let
the truck out of sight. I walked until I found the exact step where it
disapeered. That made me smile. To see one step backward, it was gone and
one step forward, there it was again. The exact limit of the distance of my
vision. There was a mule lying on the ground, it had long died, a lot of its
skull showed. I had the impression that it had been frozen and thawed from
the winter. It seemed, from what I saw, that the mule was at peace, lying in
the dirt like that. I wanted to be like that when I died. Perhaps in a field,
finally at peace. I understood it. What I didn’t understand, was how I was
supposed to feel knowing Tiffany was carrying a child, of mine. Looking at
the mule’s skull, seeing past any ability to express itself, seeing to the core of
its structure. To hold that vision of peace, a final resting place, alongside this
idea of the sesame seed or pomegranite seed or tadpole that grew in Tiffany.
I have no remarkable conclusion.
I dried the mushrooms in the sun. I did not know what it would do to
their potency or flavour, but it was better to keep them dried until I knew
what to do with them. As some days passed, I saw mold growing onto one
of them, which I was unsure what to make of. Instead I boiled them into a
strong tea. It was a brown yellow, as you might imagine. I poured it into a
glass bottle and put it ontop of the fridge. In the sun I saw small bits of
mushroom and dirt floating through it. I regret what I’d done. Despite the
shame I felt, the basket of mushrooms, with the pillowcase, that I took, was
how I wanted to sell them. There was no reversing that. I’d come back with
nothing.
I hadn’t told Tiffany that I’d gone into the city, to try and sell the
mushrooms, and I didn’t plan on it. But that night, in some spiral of self
doubt and pity I told her what had happened. She was calm as I told her
and when I was done she told me that her brother could help us. He lived in
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 18
the sister town, it was about forty minute away. I’d been there once, to go to
the movie theater and I asked Tiffany if she would like to go there. She said
that we could do that. I seemed a lot more excited about it than her. But the
thought of going to the movie theater, in the next few days, gave me a lot of
excitement.
I went to pick Tiffany up from her shift at the diner. I disguised it as a
good deed but my intention was to find a newspaper and see what the
listings were. That is one things that seldom wore off on me. Going out to
the movie theater. We would go on Tuesday, since it was less expensive. It
took me some time to decide on which movie to see, and I was suprised
that Tiffany had such a strong opinion on it. In the end we compromised on
one, I forget its name now. And I will admit, I was happy to know that we’d
be seeing something that she wanted to as well. That brought me a rare
happiness. It had become very seldom that I truly cared for another person’s
hapiness. I don’t know if its something I lost along the way, or never knew
in the first place. But it was there, then. I remember sitting at the counter,
with that newspaper, watching her finish her shift.
7
THE CLIFFSIDE WAS AS IT WAS, WHATEVER HAPPENED ELSEWHERE. THE
sycamore trees covered in snow, mostly. Still, standing there I had the
thought that I wanted to step off of it and end it all. I did not think that
Tiffany would need me, at the end of the day. She would be fine, without
me. I thought that if I left them a bag of money, that would be best. She
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 19
wouldn’t have to deal with me, and whatever I would get drowned in. But
here I was, self pitying. Pure cowardice and weakness. Those thoughts had
nowhere to go, they were the ones that wanted to leap off of the cliffside. It
occured to me, that the logic was as follows, finally if my only use was to
make money and I was unable to do that, then I was worthless and those
around me with be better off if I was out of the equation. They would be
better off if I was dead. It was moreso a utility. I was more useful dead, it
seemed. I stood there, until I became bored.
I was ashamed of myself, of how much I thought about myself. About
how narcissitic I was. I cared deeply about how I looked and what other
people thought of me, even though I didn’t see people for days. But that was
changing. If I liked it or not. I saw Tiffany most every day. Always at her
apartment. If we were going to have this child. And we were, it seemed.
That we should be together. That she should come live in the cabin.
I began thinking of dragging a toilet through the snow. I don’t know
why. It was a useless thought. I thought of the trail that it would have left in
the snow, and someone, in the image of it all, it seemed compulsory to
move this toilet. I imagined the moon, full as ever, slowly lowering in the
sky and eventually going into the toilet and getting captured in it. The
moon was in the toilet, it was trapped there. I had captured that rogue
bastard. Fuck you moon! And now, if some coyote came, or whomever, they
had two options. Either kill me and have the chance to piss on the moon,
standing up, like a man, or I could take the moon, from the toilet and slice
that coyote’s head off. I would hold its head towards the sky but there
would be no moon to howl at. Me and the toilet, in the woods, reckoning
with the coyote. The guy who probably killed that mule I saw in the grass.
Enough of that shit.
I sat at the diner and waited for her shift to finish. Reading the
newspaper, as I’d gotten into the new habit of doing. And afterward we got
into the truck. She told me that she was nauseus and then hungry and then
nauseus and hungry again. We stopped at the supermarket. I walked with
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 20
her, slowly, we tried to find all the snacks that she wanted to eat. Salt
crackers mostly. Ginger candies. Something about the way that her winter
jacket was. The fabric on it was wrecked, and it reminded me of another
time. The way that it fit on her. I don’t know what it was. I sound like a
fool trying to explain it. It seemed almost like the lighting was hypmotising
me into something, but I looked and it was just a glowing florescent bulb. It
was a harsh light, but it seemed that the way she looked in it, looking at a
box of some kind of cookies. On sale. It left an impression on me. And now,
in her stomache, apparently, or wherever it was, there was going to be a kid.
A combination of the two of us. I saw it though, it would be more her than
it would be me. Unless it wasn’t.
At her apartment we sat and I left most of the food for her. Instead I ate
some frozen thing from her freezer that she didn’t feel up to eating. I found
myself picking my nose, at some scab while it was cooking. She ate the
crackers and slept on the couch. I sat and did nothing for what seemed like
a long time but it was only a few minutes.
Her mother called, when she was sleeping and woke her up. They didn’t
speak for very long. Afterward I sat and wrote in my book, trying to sort
out my thoughts or come up with some new ones. I don’t know what I
wrote down, I would have to look back at my notebook. But I doubt it was
very important at all.
We sat on the couch and watched tv and finally I told her that she could
come move to the cabin and I would try to take care of her. She was
curious to hear me say that. And she didn’t answer right away. Looking at
her again, I saw the way her hair was and how her face was. The light had
nothing to do with what I saw at the supermarket. But it had some effect on
me, the way she was. Like something was twisted in me, that I wanted to be
closer to her and that I admired her. It made me feel like I was nothing.
Only a reaction, like fire burst onto oil, if you would excuse the egredious
metaphor.
She said that she would move. And that brought me some joy that I
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 21
seldom knew before. I thought of that cliffside, and how I had been there
before, thinking of throwing myself off of it. I did not lose sight of that. It
was still there and it would be there long after. It would forget us all. If it
even realized us at all.
8
I AM SELF DOUBTING AND CONSIDER MYSELF A FAILURE IN MANY RESPECTS. I
don’t think that is a lie, as I consider it. I read magazines, in which
successful people talk about their failures and wear them like a badge of
honour. I am unsure what their intention is, to coddle who they were, or to
patronize, even unintentionally. At times I try to ignore any notion of
success, as those people, who I read about in magazines, seem to agree that
it is snake oil or some equivalent. It is not happiness I am after. Despite my
bouts of misery, I feel I am at peace with my moods. It is something else. I
am unsure if it is success. I am unsure if it is popularity or money.
Independence, perhaps. Independence and integration, perhaps. I do wonder
though. If those exist. And I despair around them. It may be, that these
insecurities and struggles that I am feeling, are constants. Like hunger and
sex and rest. The need to stand on the cliffside and consider what it would
mean, what it would be like to die. The need to imagine yourself, in a
hospital bed, surrounded by the people who loved you, and even if there are
none, imagining what it may feel like , that they were there. And they loved
you for all of the reasons you wanted them too. You made your money and
gave it to them, and they were grateful. And now, you are drinking the last
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 22
coffee you will ever drink. Because you are going to die, peacefully. And the
coffee will not keep you from falling asleep into your death. But it might be
good to be alert, and caffienated, during your death. To make sure you don’t
miss anything.
I sat at the counter, while she finished her shift. I had forgotten her
name momentarily. When she was finished her shift, she was exhausted.
Tiffany. I would look at her sometimes and have the sense that she was not
an actual person. I had enjoyed going to the movies with her. At first, I was
bored by the movie, but as it built I understood it better and was taken by
it. She enjoyed it also, but I noticed she slept through some of it. We ate
popcorn, and usually I was too cheap to buy it, but I wanted her to be
happy. And that is what has been most confusing to me. How her happiness
has become natural to me. It is more often, that the happiness of a woman
that I’m with, is merely an accolade. But in this case, it seems I am
unconcerned with my own, or it is not reliant on hers. The difference, is
what confuses me.
I am not fooled by people concerning themselves with what authentic
love is. It is dubious. I was obsessed by Annie, and this brought me a
constant discomfort. Tiffany on the other hand, I thought of often, but the
thought of her, and what she was doing or what she was thinking,
It may be true, that I’m the dumbest fuck to ever walk the planet. If
there was something I would obliterate from my personality, it may be that
thought, of second guessing, of criticizing of self doubt and self hatred. But
would that be for my own comfort? At best, this intense drain of confidence
could be reflected inward, to such an extent that it could useful, somehow
to myself and to someone else. Enough people have done it already, the
information already exists. But I don’t know if I have a choice, but to do it
anyways.
To stand at the cliffside, and to consider death. It seems irrelvant now. It
fluctuates form one day to another, for no apparent reason. If I wasn’t going
to outright kill myself, then, if that had truly been decide, then I would have
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 23
to do something different.
I sat in the cabin, in the quiet. The wind moving the snow upward, from
the ground. The tea that I had brewed from the mushrooms. I had drank it
all accidently. It seemed that it worthless.
I was running upward, from the inside of a urinal, the pink puck seeping
into my skin. I ran desperately, some galvonized brown piss, below. Some
guy entered the restroom, I was merely an inch tall. He walked towards the
urinal, his gut hung out from the bottom of his t-shirt, he had a long beard
and he opened his pants and the smell of his dick clouded into my face. I
was no bigger than his pisshole. He grunted and let out a massive fart and
aimed his pecker towards me. It was then that I thought back to the
cliffside. That death, that I had reckoned with, I regret making that peace. I
should have killed myself when I had the chance. This fucking guy was
going to drown me with his piss but his dick was constipated and he
couldn’t piss. He let out another groan. With all of my desperation, I
climbed through the pink urinal puck and got to the edge of the urinal. The
proverbial cliffside, snow capped. I had the opportunity now, to escape. But
I was too frightened to die. I could not make the jump. I was a coward. I
would have liked to say that I did not do it because I needed to be there for
Tiffany, and the unborn child. But it was because I was too scared. And the
man did not piss. Instead some drops of blood, dripped from his dick and
he farted again. There was a man who would be dead within the year. And
somehow, I doubt anyone cared, even him. There was no point to his
existence. I reckonized him. The driver that sat with Annie, when I met her.
I walked out of the restroom then. After washing my hands well with that
shitty orange soap. She wasn’t there. I was ashamed that I looked, but there
was no stopping that impulse.
I sat at the counter, at the diner, with my coffee, thumbing through the
newspaper, waiting for Tiffany to finish her shift.THE IDIOT TREE 24
9
SHE STILL HAD A FEW MONTHS LEFT ON THE APARTMENT LEASE. BUT WHEN I’D
be over there I saw that she’d put some of her things in boxes. She said that
she was going to have to quit working at the diner eventually. Maybe she
could come back after the baby was born, but she didn’t know. And there it
was. All of my inability to hold a job, or to earn money, it never mattered
much. Except to my own pride, or ego or whatever. But now, it would.
In the morning I dug the snow out, near the cliffside. I spent near, four
hours. The sun was out, not enough to melt the snow but enough to
condense it down and make it heavier to lift. But I did find some of those
mushrooms. Enough to fill a small plastic bag.
I remember that well. I sat in the cabin and lit up the fire. I sat by it. I
drank some chocolate milk powder and water. Tiffany’s brother was going
to be in town. We were going to meet him some restaurant or another after
her shift. She acted different around him. Not in a way that was out of
character or odd, just different. She was protective over him in some ways.
He wasn’t kind neccesarily. You could see that kindness to him was effort
and a learned behaviour. There was a lot of anger in him. He was weary of
me, but I saw that he was trying to be kind. Tiffany told him, finally that she
was pregnant. I saw in him, how he put on the reaction. I tried being jovial
at first, but I couldn’t keep up the falseness of it. I couldn’t get a good read
on him one way or another. He didn’t mention anything about the
mushrooms. I had them in my pocket. My thoughts stayed mostly centered
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 25
for that dinner. And we ate well.
He was in town for something or other. We were going to meet him
again. Tiffany explained that he would take what we had and see what he
could do with it. I gave it to her. It was strange seeing it in her hand like
that. She wasn’t the type to take it, especially being pregnant and all.
I spent the night at Tiffany’s. We were drinking some kind of vitamin c
drink. Tasted a bit off but that was the vitamins.
The next morning she told me she was woken up at three in the
morning or so. She heard some loud metal crashing. I didn’t hear it at all.
She said that she couldn’t believe I slept through it. I told her I was
exhausted from shovelling out all that snow. She said that’s why I smelled
like a zoo animal. She pushed me into the shower. My back was damn sore
when I got up.
I stood in the shower there, in that apartment. The water was good.
Tiffany was doing something or other. It was a good ending for me and
what I’d been through. Whatever happened going onwards, I knew it
wouldn’t be good. Even if it was alright, somehow I had the sense that this
was as good as things could get or at least as good as I ever wanted them to
be. I don’t know if I’d say I was lucky, or if I’d earned that place or anything
like that. It seemed about as random as anything else, the way that it came
to be. There wasn’t something I did, or didn’t do, no choices or sacrifices I’d
made. I was as much a damn idiot as ever. But somehow, Tiffany and me
got along. It seemed like the way it was for no good reason at all. There
wasn’t anyting about her that I disagreed with much.
She was who she appeared to be. And that’s all I could ask of anyone.
That’s all I could ask of myself. Everything aside. Maybe that’s what I’d
gotten to. All of that time I’d spent on my own, thinking about the end of
things and facing what was going on with me. Maybe that amounted to
something. I got a lot of failures and a lot of things messed up about me.
That much isn’t hard for anyone to see. Even me standing on the street
corner in the city. They can see it. And that’s what I’m looking at now. I am
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 26
as I appear to be. If Tiffany realized it or not, we shared that worldview. I
think. That’d be my ultimate respect to her and how she lived her life and
saw the world. No bullshit.
I got out of the shower there and she was sitting at the counter. Her
head was in her hands and she was crying. I went over to her. And it took a
long time before she said anything. She said it was something about her
brother. That’s all she said about it. Until eventually she got dressed for
work.
I drove to the costco and asked them if they had any job openings. They
gave me an application form and didn’t say much else. I walked around
there for a while, there was a box of chocolate granola bars that seemed
healthy enough and were a good price. I bought them and then ate a hot
dog in the cafe area. The ketchup pump had some air bubble in it. It
exploded, not enough that I would have cared but it got all over the
application papers. I sat and tried to read through the questions. I felt pissed
off and incompetant so I stopped and just ate the hot dog in peace.
CHAPTER TWO
1 &2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 27
I REALIZE THAT MOST THINGS THAT I THINK UP, IT’LL TURN TO BULLSHIT IN A
few days. I sit and look at these papers and I don’t know what it all
amounts to. We are going to the doctor today. To make sure the pregnancy
is going alright. I’m not thinking that much about it. I thought I’d have time
to put in my application at costco but I figure I’ll go tomorrow and later,
depending on when we get done. I still haven’t finished the questions. I got
to finish the questions first.
My mind feels loud, like there is some kind of pressure, speeding up my
thoughts. I don’t know.
I was walking along the river, the ice was thick enough it didn’t seem
like it would break. I stayed along the side, tossing the bigger rocks further
out, seeing if it would break through. I walked farther down than I had been
before.
I was as alone there as I ever was. But still it didn’t feel like enough. I
didn’t feel like myself. Maybe I had mistaken what I thought I wanted. It
seemed like being alone. I had assumed that if I was alone then I would be
able to be whoever I wanted. To clear the distraction and be able to have the
space to see who I was. But that wasn’t what it was. I would like to have
said that I was calm, alone. But I wasn’t. With Tiffany, that seemed to ease
my thoughts.
I had to take a massive dump, it came over me suddenly. I felt like an
idiot. I went into the trees, and did what I had to do. No toilet paper. I
would have to walk it off. I saw some car keys there. A bit ahead of me. A
toyota. A took them. There was a marble on the keychain. I pressed the
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 28
button on the thing. I couldn’t tell if I heard anything or not. I pressed it
again, walking towards the sound. I went through the trees and found there,
and empty parking lot. I stood in the parking lot. The sound was much
quieter. I saw that someone had taped some trees together, creating some
kind of square out of packing tape. I waved my hand towards the square
and felt a slight zap. It was fucking electrified. It scared the hell out of me. I
went back and tossed a rock at the tape square. Nothing happened. I waved
a stick through it. Still nothing.
Immediatley it seemed like my attention was distracted. I like I was
watching a television show. A cluster of thoughts that seemed both plastic
and narcissitic. Like I was taken away from the present reality and my
anxieties. I forgot where I was. It felt as if I was shopping and desperately
looking for a connection through it all.
I thought of if the baby would be okay. And I felt like I was in a
wormhole of answers, like I was reading other people’s thoughts. The
reliability of it all was too broad to understand. And I walked away from it.
It seemed mostly transparent, except for a few discrepancies. As I walked
away from the thing and pressed the button again. The sound was more
faint. It led towards the square and seemed to quiet as I walked towards it. I
walked past the parking lot towards the highway. I didn’t know where I was.
I was beginning to panic, I needed to get back and take Tiffany to her
doctor’s appointment.
I ran down the highway. Hoping a car would pass and give me a lift into
town. I remembered I forgot to brush my teeth. But there were no cars.
There were times were I was positive I was going in the wrong direction,
but it was too late to turn back. I thought of that masking tape box, there in
the parking lot. And what the hell it was.
I was drenched in sweat and my muscles ached by the time I got to
Tiffany’s apartment. I was there almost exactly when I was supposed to be
there. I told her I got lost in the woods. She was pleased that I made it
when I did. She asked if I wanted to shower. But we’d be late if I did. So I
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 29
said that I would when we got back.
Did you sleep good? She nodded. Good. I kissed her cheek. That was
something about her. The softness of her skin. I know she had a whole
thing she did before she went to bed. Washing her face and applying the oils
and whatever. But it made me feel lucky. That she took care of herself. I
trusted her. I had the sense that she would leave me if she had to. If I was
being a piece of shit, she would leave me. When I say that I trusted her, it
doesn’t mean that I trusted her with some secret, or trusted her that she
wouldn’t take off. It was different than that. I trusted her to do what was
right for her. And that didn’t give me immunity. I knew that taking care of
herself was something she would always do. That’s what I trusted. Sitting
there, drenched in sweat, having not brushed my teeth and with shit
remenants in my ass. I wasn’t doing the best job of it.
It seemed like it meant something to her that I ended up making it on
time. Maybe she didn’t give a shit about my hygiene, in that moment,
because she knew I was up early and got lost and then ran back like that. I
thought I was panicking and a total fuck up for that. I was ashamed of
myself but she saw it differently. She saw it that I did what I had to so that
I’d be there for her. I nodded. Thinking of how odd it was, that maybe
things were reasonable between us. I suppose that was new to me.
2
TIFFANY WENT IN AHEAD OF ME SO THAT SHE WAS ON TIME FOR HER
appointment. She was still in the waiting room when I got there. It was
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 30
halloween and the receptionist was dressed as a pirate. We sat and waited
for however long. Eventually they called Tiffany in and she went behind the
set of doors there.
She was most worried that her symptoms had gone down and that she’d
lost the baby. The week before she was nauesous, some ordinary food tasted
like metal. She was tired and needed to nap twice a day. But over the
weekend she felt fine. She woke up and it went away. She thought that
meant, that it was over.
I was unsure one way or another. She’d come back out and it’d be alive
or not. And maybe there was too of them. She said that her whole life she
wanted twins but now that she was pregnant she felt desperate that there
would just be one.
I don’t know what I thought of when I sat there. Perhaps it was nothing.
Eventually a nurse came out and told me to come in. She walked me behind
the doors. I felt suspended and outside of myself. That now it was time to
be strong and find handle whatever they were going to say. It didn’t matter
what I thought, I would react how I was going to. I entered the room and
Tiffany lay on the bed. Her stomache covered in goop. The inside of her
stomach was on the ultrasound screen. And they showed me inside of there,
was a little flashing dot. That was the heartbeat.
It’s good then.
She nodded.
It beats fast doesn’t it.
It was all in black and white. The little dot. That was my kid.
I didn’t know if I was supposed to feel overwhelmed with emotion or in
awe over the miracle of life or whatever. But it was ordinary. And I think
ordinary, often is better than good.
I was unsure how I was supposed to feel.
On the car ride home, I don’t know how it came up exactly, but Tiffany
told me a story about how her brother, some years ago, was living with his
mother. And he’d come across some kind of lump on his nutsack. He was
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 31
hysterical and crying thinking that he had cancer and was going to die. It
was the middle of the night, two in the morning. He went down and woke
up their mom and asked her to check, she was a nurse after all. It calmed
him down. I thought of what a pathetic piece of shit he was. Going down
and crying to his mother about his poor nuts. Mere weeks ago, I was
standing on the cliffside, thinking of ending my life, for the hell of it, and
this guy couldn’t get himself to a damn doctor. If he was so concerned
about his swollen nuts. And I thought of our kid. I didn’t know how it all
connected. Me thinking that I was better than her brother, for not asking
my own mother to look at my nuts. Meanwhile standing on the cliffside,
willing to end my own life. For no good reason at all. What kind of father
would I be.
Her brother had called and said that the mushrooms that I’d given him
were good. And he could sell them, and make a decent amount of money if
I was able to provide more. That was the point of her story in the end. I
think she just got lost, thinking about the ultrasound.
I thought about my application to costco. There was a certain shame that
came along with it. I wanted to do things on my own.
Tell him that I can get more. I said.
I was sore from all that rushing around in the morning. We had sex in
the afternoon. I was free to do as I wanted, knowing she was pregnant. Still,
it was more or less ordinary, and I didn’t want to blast cum all over the
poor guy. If it was a guy. And maybe it was a girl. It wasn’t quite the size of
a blueberry from what I knew. But I saw the heartbeat on the screen.
My back was sore when I woke up in the morning but I went back to
the woods. I dug out more of the snow and collected as many mushrooms
as I could. They were few and far between, but at least I had some.
I sat in the cabin, and made a fire from the sycamore that I had left. I
would have to go to the library. And figure out how to grow these fuckin
things.
In the morning I did so. I averted my eyes from anyone who I might
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 32
have recognized. I didn’t want to get distracted into any conversations. In
the end I couldn’t find much about farming mushrooms. It was a long shot.
The town library was small. I was going to have to go to the city to figure
things out.
I stopped by the diner to tell Tiffany I was doing that. She kissed me
before I left and I realized that was the first time she might have kissed me
while she was on shift. In front of everyone that was there.
On the drive I had some realization. Maybe we should get married. If
this kid thing was real, we might want to think about that. I didn’t have any
reason not to marry that woman. In fact, I wanted to. And I think she’d say
yes to it. I’d have to get a ring. Maybe I could find something in the city. I
thought about it, driving past that turn off where I saw that dead mule.
3
I REGRET NOT APPLYING TO COSTCO. THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN THE SMARTER
thing to do. But maybe they wouldn’t even hire me. They would have taken
one look at me and laughed their asses off. Thinking that I could work at
that place. They would know that maybe I thought I was being serious
about it, but I was fooling myself more than them. Whose this fucking guy,
who thinks he can work at a costco? He’d last a few months and then he’d
quit himself. He can’t sit still. He thinks he can be his own boss and that
he’s better than us. Not only is he a dumbass but he’s an asshole.
And he has nothing to say. He cannot hold a conversation. He was
narrcissistic, when he was maneageable. But now he has even given up on
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 33
himself. He has been humbled, and that is why he thinks he can work at
costco. But for us, those who belong here, and run this place, we are lucky
to have this job.
He grew up priveleged. His father was a rich man. A pediatric dentist.
His father grew up without any money, moving every year. And then he
worked, day in and day out to never have his family worry about money
again. And what did his son do? Nothing. He had every opportunity to be
something great. To be someone who could truly be useful for the world. He
was given every leg up. But he proved one point. That it was possible to
fuck up a perfect opportunity.
He wanted to be a writer. Because he felt like he had to do it. Because
nothing else meant anything to him. And he felt like nothing else made
sense. So if he lived in poverty then, so be it. But he was too much of
coward to write about sexuality or politics. He felt like his parents were
always watching him. He felt their shame or he processed his own shame as
a projection from them. He did not know. He only writes about self
obsession and violent dream fulfillment fantasies. Or glamorization of
mundane suffering as a weak attempt at authenticity.
It is true. It is all true.
And now. He had a real responsibility. To provide for a family. And it
was entirely possible that he could fuck that up the same way he’d fucked
up his life so far. He could go find a job, and see if it would work. And feel
his parents shame of him taking such a low status position, or he could risk
it all and try to write a book that he could sell. But who would want to read
about the scenerios he made? Who in the right mind would think that a
single thing he had to say was of any worth. No matter how much work he
would do. It would all be for nothing. He would not make a living as a
writer. The pursuit of it was selfish and useless.
That is what they would say at costco when they looked at my resume.
You can see, as well I can, if I am destined to fail as a writer, then there isn’t
much else I have the option to do.
I know that the last time I was in the city I got scared shitless. But it
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 34
won’t be like that again. I’ll park by my old apartment and I’ll go to the old
library. I used to spend every day there. Trying to read through every book
in the place, trying to understand how it all worked. Trying to find some
kind of answer, or truth. And then one day, I stopped. It seemed like maybe
I had all the answers already, but I was too frightened to look. And that’s
when I started to retreat. I don’t know how long it took, maybe less than a
year. It seemed like the noble thing to do. To find some kind of
independence. To take that opportunity and learn to know myself. But the
closer I got, the more I saw that it was only chaos. Or I was too weak to
handle the aloneness of it all. There was a reason why it was noble. Because
it was difficult to see yourself, for who you are. It is difficult to accept your
flaws and to wear them alone.
I am unsure if the joy of life, hides behind the shame or if the shame
hides behind the joy. The sin of man, I suppose, there would be no way
around it. At least I wasn’t trying to hide the shame that every person must
be carrying. I could not look around the city and not see every action that
people took as an attempt to hide from that shame. The way that they
dressed, and cut their hair and who they walked with and where they ate. It
was all one attempt to bury the shame that consumed them. It made me sick
when I was younger, and then I laughed at it, and then I became numb to it.
And now when I see it, it makes me feel like I am the pathetic one. I care
too much to even be involved. Every action was a weak attempt to prove
status. And to me, I did not want status. It seemed that was inauthentic. To
have status was, more times than not, corruption and a distraction from the
truth. I had attached failure to authenticity. As a right of passage. As a path
to knowing what the fuck I was talking about. As a path to knowing myself.
To fail was to try. That’s what anyone with any success said. I knew that’s
all I truly cared about. Was success. Was proving to my family that I wasn’t
a piece of shit. But now, those words took on a new meaning. My family
meant something different now.THE IDIOT TREE 35
4
IT SEEMS IN SOME WAYS THAT IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO SEPERATE YOURSELF
completely from your class. Your financial background and your social
standing. Resources and acceptance. They are both things that are built into
our programming, things we need to survive. The issue is that the paths are
no longer clear. The idea that each person’s financial standing is tied to the
effort they exerted is simply not the reality. Regardless of political standing,
and whose fault that it is, it simply is not how it works. In many ways, it
seems as though it’s a role of the dice for many. As history tells us,
prescribing equity, in one sense of the word, fairness, results in chaos.
Earning equity, in the other sense of the word, ownership, also, as our
culture shows us results in chaos. If chaos is inevitable, then to the naive
mind, it is difficult not to see chaos as the baseline. What then can anyone
do about it? Create equity in both senses of the word in whatever ways that
you can, in whatever ways you are capable.
The great flaw in my thinking has been that equity is attainable. It is a
utopia, not a reality. The truth is that chaos will always prevail. It is what
happens to anything in its natural state. The meaning of life in not to accept
chaos, to accept them in their natural state, it’s to create meaning through
equity. Perhaps it can be put this way. If you own a plant if you have equity
in the plant, you are responsible to take care of it. And to create equity, if
there is someone without a plant, you can create equity and fairness by
giving them a cutting of the plant.
How do I, then, use that logic. If that’s what I believe, and apply it to my
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 36
life. Driving down the road, with the few mushrooms that I have. The only
thing I could find, of any value, which is questionable at all. Perhaps they
are merely poison. They have not helped me at all. In fact they have only
caused more chaos in my mind. I am not an advocate for them at all. But
now, Tiffany’s brother thinks they might be worth something. I am second
guessing this entire thing. I am too afraid to apply for a job at costco. Now I
am thinking myself into a state of futility and defeat when it comes to
growing these mushrooms. I kept driving.
I looked through the books in the library. I tried to find something about
farming process. I looked through the titles for a long time. Understanding
the types of books on the subject alone was enough of a job. I found one
book that seemed ok. I used the photocopier and copied some of the
diagrams and some of the instructions. Enough to get me going. I didn’t
know how far I’d really gotten. I was happy to sit there. I suppose it might
have been something about the equity of it all. The public library system, is
by my count, the only fair game out there.
All I could really say, at this point. Was fuck it. I was thinking too much
about it all. I’d go on with growing the mushrooms and see where I could
take it. And if that failed, then I’d do something else. It wasn’t anything
against costco. This just seemed like the thing to do.
I got myself a cup of coffee while I was downtown. I sat on a bench and
drank it. I thought that there were idiots everywhere. There was something
in me that just looked at people and thought they were dumbasses. I don’t
know what it was about it. I thought of Tiffany and how she didn’t care
about any of this kind of thing. Maybe one day we could go to city together.
That might be a good thing to do.
I had a hard time finding a ring shop. I looked in a couple pawn shops
but I wasn’t sure what to make of it all. I didn’t know anything about it. I
walked all the way to the shopping mall. There were a few stores in there. I
don’t think they saw me as someone who was really serious about buying
anything. One of the employees was kind to me. But I wasn’t sure what
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 37
kind of ring to get. It seemed like I was going to need at least six hundred
bucks to make it happen.
I sat in the cabin by the fire, falling in and out of sleep. I looked at the
different diagrams that I copied for the mushrooms. I looked out the
window, out at all of the snow. I imagined how it would all look. I imagined
Tiffany there, helping out with things. I imagined her brother being happy
about the arrangement and him saying that it was good to be in business
with one another. I imagined that it was helping him as well. I imagined it
all working out.
I thought of my mother and my father and my sisters. I would have to
tell them that Tiffany was pregnant. First, I’d have to tell them who she was.
Nothing scared me more, than them. I didn’t know when I would call them
or what I would say. Maybe we could go visit them. Maybe Tiffany could
come along with me. I would have to ask her about that.
The fire went on, there was still a lot of wood left from the tree that I’d
cut down earlier. I don’t know if it would last the entire winter. Maybe it
would, since I was spending so much time at Tiffany’s apartment. I didn’t
remember falling asleep when I woke up, but it was the best sleep I’d had in
a long time. I made a pot of coffee and stood out on the deck and drank it.
5
THE DOCTOR CALLED AND SAID THAT THE ULTRASOUND LOOKED GOOD. THE
baby was ok. There was a small hemmorhage but they said it was nothing to
worry about. It was common.
I think that might be the end of it all. I have nothing else to say about
&2345678901234567890123456789&THE IDIOT TREE 38
myself or what happened. I hope to stay with Tiffany and I hope we get
married. I hope I will not rely on her soley for all of the good things in my
life. But often that is the fate of a man.
At the moment I feel like the mushrooms, inevitably won’t work out.
And I will have to try again. I don’t know why I am going to try, if I know
it will fail. Somehow I don’t know how I will stop trying. Whether or not it
works. There is a side of me that thinks that even if it does work out,
whatever that means, I suppose it means being able to make enough money
to support those who are relying on me to provide for them, while keeping
their respect.
If I am able to keep my focus and keep trying, maybe it will work out.
And if it fails. I hope there is no way of knowing that. I don’t think it will
end in my death. It will end with me here, in the cabin, no different than
before.
At the moment I feel both like I am in a state of despair, but also that
everything will end up okay.
I don’t know if there is any closing that gap in any permament way.
Somehow, I think the ultimate sickness, is thinking that there is some
combination, or some way of looking at it all, some perspective that will put
everything in its rightful place and I will have found some sense of self.
Some integrity and confidence. Some real sense of knowing who I am.
As I burn the end of the firewood, from the tree I cut down, I want it to
be known that there is no wisdom. There is no perspective and there is no
answer. There is perhaps, only an underlying chaos that is unforgiving and
unknowing. It is nature and inevitably we will all answer to it. Without any
sense of right or wrong or wisdom. Without meaning or reason.
















































INT. LIBRARY - DAY
SEYMOUR, twenty, stout and unhandsome -- wears a flannel
jacket with a hood built in. He is brute and unfriendly
looking but still seems sensitive and even trustworthy.
He types on a computer. Among others who nap, or do homework.
SEYMOUR (V.O.)
My name is Seymour Lucienski and
I’m the son of Arnold Lucienski who
you all know I assume.
1 1
EXT. LANDFILL - DAY
A car is packed with furniture. A dresser is tied to the
roof.
SEYMOUR (V.O.)
I am writing here in the library
today. I have a computer at home
but when I’m there I get unfocused
and play video games and watch tv
and stuff like that.
The car turns off the highway and follows a road that leads
towards a landfill site.
EXT. SCHOOLYARD - DAY
Seymour fights another kid. The other kid is bigger than him.
He can get hits in but they don’t have much affect.
SEYMOUR (V.O.)
I always liked writing. Since I was
a kid. I don’t know why. Sometimes
I do it more than other times. I
have a lot of different files saved
from over the years.
2 2
INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS
SEYMOUR, ten, sits in the passenger seat. He’s scrawny and
unhandsome.
ARNOLD, sixty, drives. He is stout and also unhandsome.
ARNOLD
Gloves?2.
2.
SEYMOUR
Yup.
They each put on a pair of work gloves and get out of the
car.
EXT. SCHOOLYARD - DAY
SEYMOUR (V.O.)
I didn’t come up with much to say
at his funeral. But I did have more
to say about his life and what he
meant to me.
The bigger kid tosses Seymour on the ground and tells him to
stay down. Seymour won’t, he gets out and goes another round.
The other kid tells him to fuck off.
3 3
EXT. LANDFILL - CONTINUOUS
Seagulls peck and swoop through the garbage.
Arnold opens the back of the car. It’s full of decorative
furniture, women’s clothes, paintings, rugs, vases and
trinkets...
They climb into the back of the car.
Arnold tosses a lamp and a box of cups.
Seymour watches the belongings smash.
ARNOLD
Watch out.
Arnold throws a night table off the end
Arnold grips one end of a dresser.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Grab the other end.
Seymour takes the other end.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Ok, on three -- ready?
SEYMOUR
Yup.
ARNOLD
One, two --3.
3.
SEYMOUR
Hey Dad...
ARNOLD
What?
SEYMOUR
What if she comes back?
ARNOLD
...Not going to happen son -- she’s
gone for good.
Seymour nods.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Okay -- one, two, THREE --
They toss the dresser off the back.
SEYMOUR (V.O.)
My Dad was the best.
4 4
EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
The car is parked outside of a highway-side restaurant.
5 5
INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
Seymour and Arnold sit across from one another with
hamburgers, fries and sodas...
Seymour isn’t scarfing down his meal like Arnold is.
ARNOLD
Good burgers here.
Seymour nods. He is clearly upset.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Alright, son, listen --
Arnold wipes sauce off his mouth with a napkin.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
If you’re looking for a pep talk...
well, I don’t really have one
prepared, so -- we’re just going to
have to tough it out and keep busy
with work. Not much else we can do
about it.4.
4.
SEYMOUR
Ok.
ARNOLD
How about this -- I’ll tell you one
thing, Seymour -- I sure as hell
won’t turn my back on you. You can
count on that. Alright? How about
that?
SEYMOUR
Ok. Me too Dad.
Seymour’s posture becomes more broad.
ARNOLD
Good.
They dig back into their burgers.
6 6
OMITTED
14 14
OMITTED
15 15
EXT. JCC - DAY
The Jewish Community Center -- a crumby and boring single
story brick building.
Seymour and Arnold pull into the parking lot and head inside.
There is a swastika and the words -- FUCK JEWS smeared in
what looks like feces on the side of the building.
GARY wipes it off with a mop.
ARNOLD
Gary.
GARY
Arnold, how’s the day?
ARNOLD
All good. You alright?
GARY
Yup.
ARNOLD
This fuckin place.5.
5.
Arnold and Seymour enter the building...
16 16
INT. JCC - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
Upon seeing Arnold, the receptionist, GALE, fifties -- wheels
her chair around and busies herself with paperwork.
ARNOLD
Gale. Evening.
GALE
...Hi Arnold.
ARNOLD
What’s with the shit outside?
GALE
Excuse me?
ARNOLD
Is Bruno in?
GALE
Oh, he’s already gone for the day,
do you want me to leave him a note
for tomorrow?
BRUNO comes out --
Arnold winks at Gale.
Gale looks guilty.
ARNOLD
Bruno! I thought I could find you
mulling about.
BRUNO
Hey Arnold...
ARNOLD
Could I get a word?
BRUNO
What can I do for you Arnold?6.
6.
ARNOLD
Listen, I’m going to cut to the
chase here -- I know the board
meetings tomorrow and -- well I’ve
got some ideas about allocating the
funding here in order to benefit
more folks and help with some
savings. You know -- I worked at
the postal union for nineteen years
and I know a thing or two about
taking care of people --
BRUNO
-- It’s for board members only
Arnold.
ARNOLD
I’m talking about the families,
Bruno -- the jewish families --
coming to our country for the first
time -- they don’t know a lick of
the language, they’ve barely got a
dime to their name -- and meanwhile
you guys are trying to build this
place into the four seasons.
BRUNO
You looking for a job or something?
What’s going on?
ARNOLD
You need anyone?
BRUNO
You serious?
Seymour looks between the two of them, trying to make sense
of their conversation.
ARNOLD
This is my boy Seymour.
BRUNO
Howdy Seymour.
Seymour nods.
Bruno thinks for a moment.
BRUNO (CONT'D)
Alright, listen, Arnold -- why
don’t you come to the meeting
tomorrow and you tell the board
what you think?
(MORE)
(MORE)7.
7.
BRUNO (CONT'D)
BRUNO (CONT'D)
You tell us how things should be
run. How about that, Arnold?
ARNOLD
Well, alright... appreciate that
Bruno.
BRUNO
Will see you at the meeting then.
ARNOLD
Yup.
Bruno walks off.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Thanks Gale.
Seymour follows Arnold back to the exit.
SEYMOUR
That guy’s the boss?
ARNOLD
That’s right. He’s not a bad guy.
Real shit for brains -- but not a
bad guy.
EXT. NEIGHBOURHOOD - DAY
Seymour zooms his bike down a hill. A car comes around the
corner, slams on the breaks and curses Seymour out.
7 7
EXT. JCC - PARKING LOT - NIGHT
Seymour and Arnold walk back to the car.
ARNOLD
Here -- you think you can handle
it?
Seymour sizes up the car.
SEYMOUR
Yup. I could.
Arnold tosses Seymour the keys.
INT. CAR - NIGHT
Seymour tries to act confident as he drives.8.
8.
ARNOLD
Eyes on the road. Look ahead.
SEYMOUR
Yup.
ARNOLD
I think the real issue -- is that
they don’t care about people, they
care about themselves and you know -
- they think I’m some kind of
marxist but I’ll tell you Seymour
your grandparents came here -- a
lot of jews came after the war --
but your grandparents came before --
I was fortunate being born in this
country. Same way you are -- but
being a jew Seymour, at the end of
the day -- I don’t give two shits
about it -- it’s just another brand
of mustard as far as I’m concerned -
- but it’s what we are -- and
somehow that means something. So if
anyone tells you they’ve got a
problem with you being a jew and
all -- do me a favor and knock
their teeth out.
Seymour looks at him -- almost proudly.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Eyes on the road Seymour.
SEYMOUR
Yup.
INT. LIBRARY - DAY
Seymour looks over what he’s written so far...
8 8
OMITTED
9 9
OMITTED
10 10
OMITTED9.
9.
11 11
INT. RESTUARANT - DAY
Seymour and Arnold sit on barstools at the counter among a
few others.
Seymour has a black eye. He watches the COOK crack eggs onto
the griddle.
Arnold reads the newspaper. He goes through the classified
section and circles different job opportunities. SEEKING
MANAGER -- FLOORING WAREHOUSE.
A WAITRESS comes and picks up an order of breakfast. Seymour
turns his head and watches her deliver the plates to a table
at the other end of the room.
ARNOLD
Eyes on the road, kid.
Seymour stops gawking at the Waitress.
The Cook, whose face and demeanor is far less warm and
attractive than the Waitress, puts two plates of food in
front of Seymour and Arnold.
Arnold turns to the guy next to him --
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
You done with the ketchup there or
what?
The guy doesn’t hear him.
Arnold grabs the ketchup and puts some over his potatoes
before handing the bottle to Seymour.
12 12
OMITTED
13 13
EXT. RESTAURANT - PARKING LOT - DAY
Seymour gets back into the car.
Seymour and Arnold walk to the car --
ARNOLD
What’s that about?
SEYMOUR
I got in a fight.10.
10.
ARNOLD
What over?
SEYMOUR
Called me a faggot.
ARNOLD
A faggot eh?
SEYMOUR
I told him I’m a jew, not a faggot.
Arnold laughs and playfully jabs Seymour.
ARNOLD
Ha! Did you knock his teeth out?
SEYMOUR
Yup. I did.
EXT. JCC - NIGHT
Seymour and Arnold exit the car and go into the JCC --
ARNOLD
Take a couple bucks and grab
something to eat. This meeting
should’t take long. Hang tight
until I’m done.
19 19
INT. JCC - CONTINUOUS
Seymour goes to the cafe area.
DAVID, friendly looking, glasses, listens to the basketball
game from a portable radio.
Seymour stands at the till. He looks intimidated...
DAVID
What’s good brother?
Seymour holds his money in his hand.
SEYMOUR
Can I order a hot dog please.
DAVID
Sure thing. Take a seat, will be a
few minutes.11.
11.
David goes into the back and starts grilling the hot dog. He
watches Seymour through the serving window.
Seymour listens to the basketball game as he waits.
20 20
INT. JCC - NIGHT
Arnold sits at a meeting with a few others -- STUART, HAL,
ELI, IGOR and Bruno.
Descriptions of each.
STUART
Alright, let’s get this thing
going. I want to get home for
dinner. My wife’s making brisket.
IGOR
Stuart, about that...
STUART
What?
IGOR
I’m an honest person and I think
you have the right to know what’s
going on... I heard some rumors
going around about her...
STUART
There’s no rumors about my wife.
IGOR
Ok. I won’t tell you. You don’t
want to know.
STUART
Ok. What’d you hear Igor?
IGOR
It’s about her and the butcher.
STUART
What about her and the butcher?
IGOR
I heard he gave her a good deal. On
the brisket.
STUART
Oh shut the fuck up Igor!12.
12.
IGOR
Hal told me.
HAL
I absolutely did not.
BRUNO
Alright. Enough. You want to get
home for dinner or not? What do we
want to talk about? Hal, Eli?
HAL
There’s a conflict on the date of
our fundraiser at the synagogue.
ELI
What conflict?
HAL
Yom Kippur.
ELI
It’s Yom Kippur on the night of the
fundraiser?
Everyone looks at one another.
BRUNO
The most holy night of the year and
nobody picked up on that?
Arnold looks inquisitively around the room.
ELI
So move it to the next weekend.
HAL
The invites have already gone out.
BRUNO
We’re not having the fund raiser on
Yom Kippur dummy! What’s next on
the list? Jesus.
STUART
Do we want to talk about the
graffiti?
ELI
What do you want to do about it?
STUART
I’m telling you that isn’t going to
be the end of it.13.
13.
ELI
Let’s talk to our contact at the
police. Did we talk to him?
STUART
Yeah.
ELI
What’d he say?
STUART
They were looking into it. But
IGOR
How many hookers they get for
bombing us? One hundred? I’ll bomb
this place for that, wouldn’t you?
Arnold laughs. No one else does.
Everyone looks unsure of what to do...
ELI
Alright, and... it’s Arnold right?
ARNOLD
Yes. I appreciate you letting me
come in to speak.
ELI
So, what’s the concern?
ARNOLD
Well I know that there’s been some
fundraisers and I had some concerns
I wanted to raise about where the
funding was being allocated.
ELI
Ha. Concerns eh?
ARNOLD
That’s right. I know that this
renovation might be a positive
thing for the community but you’ve
got folks who are coming into the
country for the first time and
could use some more support.
ELI
You want to talk about where the
money’s going?14.
14.
ARNOLD
I do.
ELI
I’ve got death threats coming in
from terrorist groups and -- I’ll
be straight with you -- this job
here -- is all extra responsibility
that quite frankly I don’t really
need and I’m only doing this
because no one else will. So, you
think you can do better? We’ve got
the board here. You want the job.
BRUNO
He’ll take any job he can get.
Isn’t taht right Arnold.
ARNOLD
I worked for the postal union for
nineteen years, I can tell you a
thing or two about running a
community.
ELI
Let’s put it up to a vote then. How
about that?
BRUNO
Well -- listen -- I’m gonna say
something. I’m going to go ahead
and say that I’ve been trying to
shake this responsibility for some
time. And since none of you
bastards have the gull to do it --
I’m going to go ahead say --
Arnold, the positions yours if you
want it. Unless anyone else wants
to pick it up?
They all look at one another. Nobody wants to do it.
BRUNO (CONT'D)
So? Mr. Postal Union? It’s all
yours. Take it.
Arnold looks pleased.
INT. JCC - KICHEN - NIGHT
Seymour eats a hotdog and listens to the basketball game.15.
15.
SEYMOUR (V.O.)
I don’t have much good to say about
the jewish community center there.
EXT. FOREST - DAY
SEYMOUR (V.O.)
I don’t know if I can say it was
better than nothing.
Seymour wanders through the forest.
He climbs up a tree. A branch breaks. He falls onto the
ground. He is knocked out.
EXT. FOREST - NIGHT
Seymour comes to.
He gets up and looks at the moon, disoriented.
He walks through the woods, trying to find his way back.
24 24
INT. JCC - OFFICE - DAY
Arnold and Igor organize paperwork in the office.
They don’t say anything to one another. They seem suspicious
of one another.
-- Seymour arrives --
Seymour’s other eye is swollen.
ARNOLD
What happened this time?
SEYMOUR
Guy called me a damn jew.
ARNOLD
Ha. Right.
The phone rings. Igor answers --
IGOR
Hello? Whose asking?
ARNOLD
Gimmie the phone.16.
16.
IGOR
How much? No. You want to know
something? You want to know what I
think? I don’t know what whorehouse
you’re running.
ARNOLD
Pass the phone Igor.
IGOR
You’re sick in the head. I didn’t
say anything.
Arnold grabs the phone from Igor.
SEYMOUR
Hey Dad?
Arnold holds up his finger signaling him to wait.
ARNOLD
Hello? What are you saying man? You
tell him that billing an extra
fourteen hundred dollars off a five
hundred dollar bill isn’t how this
is done as far as I’m concerned. Do
you want to treat your employees
like barn animals or are we doing
business?
Arnold covers the receiver.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
What is it?
SEYMOUR
You want to watch the game?
ARNOLD
I can’t right now. Here.
Arnold gives him a bit of money from his pocket.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Grab a bite to eat.
Seymour takes the money and leaves.
INT. LIBRARY - DAY
Seymour stops typing. He sits in front of the computer and
stares blankly.17.
17.
26 26
INT. JCC - NIGHT
David plugs in a toaster. Something shorts.
DAVID
Damnit. Sorry kid, I got to run
downstairs and flip the breaker.
SEYMOUR
Alright.
DAVID
You know anything about doing that?
SEYMOUR
No.
DAVID
Well -- you want to come along? I
can show you?
Seymour shrugs.
DAVID (CONT'D)
Flip the breaker. It’s the one
labelled KITCHEN. Bottom left.
27 27
INT. JCC - BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS
Seymour follows David around the hallways.
They see the electrical box. David opens it up. He uses a key
to unlock the door.
They go inside.
See this one.
He flips the breaker.
DAVID
Good stuff buddy.
Seymour seems pleased with himself.
INT. SCHOOL - DAY
Seymour sneaks down the hallway.
He goes into the basement.18.
18.
He goes to the breaker room. He searches through --
presumably looking for the breaker box... there is a freyed
cable. He touches it and zaps himself.
INT. LIBRARY - DAY
Someone interrupts Seymour’s typing.
A WOMAN who is probably fifty. She seems humble, friendly and
slightly disturbed.
WOMAN
Excuse me...
Seymour doesn’t think that she’s talking to him.
WOMAN (CONT'D)
Do you know how to print a photo?
SEYMOUR
Me?
She nods.
WOMAN
I would like to print a photo.
SEYMOUR
Oh. Sure. Yah.
29 29
OMITTED
30 30
OMITTED
31 31
INT. JCC - CAFE - SIMULTANEOUS
David is behind the counter making cookies and whatnot.
SEYMOUR
What’s good brother?
DAVID
Always good buddy, what’s
happening?
SEYMOUR
Just keeping busy until my Dad’s
done work... was thinking of
getting a few things to tide me
over until dinner.19.
19.
DAVID
I’m here for you buddy, ready when
you are.
SEYMOUR
Alright, I’m thinking of a plate of
fries.
DAVID
Coming up.
SEYMOUR
Are there cookies?
DAVID
Fresh from the kiln, brother.
SEYMOUR
Ok.
DAVID
Fries and cookies, good stuff
buddy.
Seymour nods.
DAVID (CONT'D)
You wanna come around back and
listen the game? I’ll find it on
the radio here.
SEYMOUR
Alright!
Seymour smiles.
Seymour goes around to the back...
Seymour sits on a milk crate and listens to the basketball
game on the radio while he eats his fries.
David works in the background.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
YAH. You hear that?
DAVID
Sure did boss.
SEYMOUR
We’re killing it!20.
20.
DAVID
For sure. But... damn it -- that
breaker is out again.
SEYMOUR
I can go fix it.
DAVID
I’ll come with you.
They head downstairs...
33 33
OMITTED
34 34
INT. JCC - OFFICE - DAY
Arnold repeatedly slams the phone down.
ARNOLD
MOTHER! FUCKER!
Igor stares at him.
IGOR
What’d he say?
ARNOLD
He said there’s no going back on
it. I don’t know what kind of
fucked deal was made with him in
the first place but I’m walking
into a fucking shit storm here. How
the fuck am I supposed to get
anything done here when this place
was built on this kind of fuckery?
Igor picks up the phone he dials a number.
IGOR
Is this Gabe? Gabe, I have news for
you, are you sitting down? Yes.
Well I saw your wife at the hog
slaughterhouse. Yes. Yes I did.
Arnold starts laughing.
IGOR (CONT'D)
And you’re going to wish it was
anything but this, because it
wasn’t the butcher this time. Yes
there have. Well he wasn’t doing it
for her anyone.
(MORE)
(MORE)21.
21.
IGOR (CONT'D)
IGOR (CONT'D)
She’s hog sperm bank. They ran out
of buckets. Fuck you too. So we’ll
pay you what we said. Whatever
Arnold told you.
Arnold’s still laughing.
Igor nods stoically.
35 35
INT. RESTAURANT - DAY
Seymour and Arnold sit up at the bar.
SEYMOUR
The power keeps going down in the
kitchen.
ARNOLD
Huh...
SEYMOUR
David was saying it’s been acting
up. But he’s shown me how to fix
it.
ARNOLD
How’s that?
SEYMOUR
Going into the breaker room.
ARNOLD
And doing what?
SEYMOUR
There’s a switch on the board.
ARNOLD
Uh huh.
36 36
INT. JCC - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Arnold goes to the janitor... and he asks him about the
breakers and the power and that kind of thing...
There’s nothing wrong with it. He gets him to ask David and
David denies it.22.
22.
37 37
INT. JCC - KITCHEN - DAY
Igor stands guard at the till... he finds the be back in five
minutes sign and posts it.
Arnold sees what’s going on with David.
ARNOLD
Hey Dave.
DAVID
Arnold, how we doing here?
ARNOLD
Heard you were having some issues
with the power here.
DAVID
Oh. Just overloading the breaker
every once in a while that’s all.
Arnold looks at the frying pan. It’s steel and worn down.
ARNOLD
This a good pan Dave?
DAVID
Um, sure. It is. Yeah.
ARNOLD
Great.
David stands there...
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
What’s overloading the breaker?
DAVID
It’s the toaster, when you use it
at the same time as the fan there.
Arnold nods.
ARNOLD
That’s a problem isn’t it.
DAVID
Yah.
Arnold looks at the toaster.
ARNOLD
You got a problem Dave?23.
23.
DAVID
With what?
ARNOLD
Something going on with your head.
DAVID
Nope. No. I don’t.
ARNOLD
I see.
Arnold hits him across the skull with his frying pan.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Fuckin bitch.
Arnold hits him again.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
You come anywhere this fuckin place
-- for the rest of your life --
I’ll kill you mother fucker.
David’s face is bleeding badly.
Arnold takes the toaster over his head and smashes it onto
David’s face.
Arnold drags David by the scruff and tosses him at the back
door.
38 38
EXT. JCC - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Igor stands at the back door. He holds the door open.
Igor picks David off the ground and dusts him off.
Then he punches him across the face, knocking him down again.
Arnold stomps on David’s teeth.
People in the parking lot crowd around.
ARNOLD
Anyone have anything to say?
People are shocked.
Seymour looks confused.24.
24.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
If anyone has a single fucking
thing to say -- speak up.
No one says anything.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Call the fucking cops for all I
give a fuck. But I’m not waiting
around for that shit. Around here
we’ll deal with things ourselves.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
And if anyone knows anyone looking
for a job -- we’re going to need a
new cook.
Igor picks David up again. Arnold takes his legs. They toss
him off the property onto the road into traffic.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Fuck off.
A car honks and swerves.
INT. LIBRARY - DAY
Seymour helps the Woman with her picture.
There are a lot reusable bags surrounding her work station.
There is a cartoon of something... a cat maybe.
WOMAN
I would like this photo.
SEYMOUR
Ok.
Seymour saves the file.
39 39
INT. JCC - BOARD ROOM - DAY
Arnold and Igor go back inside.
They go straight to the next meeting.
They ask him what happened.25.
25.
ARNOLD
You ask yourself something for me --
is there one thing you can think of
that would warrant that kind of
behavior? Huh?
Arnold asks if anyone doesn’t like the way he dealt with it?
No one says anything. He has taken over. He says he’d do it
again and they can call the papers, they can call the cops,
do whatever they want.
One guy argues. Nothing warrants that kind of behavior.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Then get the fuck out Eli. Anyone
else? We clear?
They seem to be.
Arnold now has taken the power over the group.
21 21
EXT. BOXING GYM - NIGHT
A decrepit concrete building -- Seymour and Arnold walk
inside.
Seymour’s eye is swollen and he has kleenex stuffed into his
nose.
22 22
INT. BOXING GYM - CONTINUOUS
They talk to MICKEY, a tough cauliflower eared man in his
fifties.
ARNOLD
You the Boss around here?
MICKEY
Yeah.
ARNOLD
I’d like to sign my kid up for
classes.
Mickey sizes Seymour up.
MICKEY
We don’t got classes for kids.
Seymour tries to look tough.26.
26.
ARNOLD
Yeah. Well, it’d be good for him to
learn to throw a punch -- so, come
on.
Mickey can see Arnold’s desperation.
Mickey looks at Seymour again. He pays more attention to his
swollen eye.
MICKEY
Where’d you pick that up? Sniffing
through your sister’s underwear
drawer?
SEYMOUR
No.
MICKEY
Alright, relax. You see that door
back there?
SEYMOUR
Yup.
MICKEY
Go fill the mop bucket.
Seymour looks up at Arnold.
SEYMOUR
Go on.
Seymour goes to the closet. He can’t hear what they’re
saying, but he watches Arnold appreciatively shake Mickey’s
hand.
40 40
OMITTED27.
27.
ACT TWO
41 41
EXT. STREET - DAY
Seymour, now fifteen, walks down the street after school. He
listens to music on his headphones.
42 42
INT. JCC - COMMON AREA - DAY
LEAH, fifteen, carries a milk crate full of baking supplies.
She wears a kerchief, long sleeves and a skirt that covers
her knees.
A group of MEN look at her as she passes. She is fearful of
them, she avoids eye contact and looks straight ahead.
43 43
OMITTED
44 44
INT. JCC - HALLWAY - CONTINOUS
Leah passes Gary. He mops the floor.
GARY
Howdy.
Leah avoids eye contact and doesn’t respond.
45 45
OMITTED
46 46
INT. JCC - KITCHEN CLASSROOM - CONTINUOUS
Leah enters.
There are a number of stoves and sinks and shelves loaded
with cooking supplies.
A group of five or six women make challah bread. They
indiscriminately chat amongst themselves.
The women are all older than Leah. They are all over well
into their forties. They are dressed similarly to her. They
are orthodox but not hassidic.
HANNAH
Thank you Leah.28.
28.
Leah brightens and smiles.
47 47
INT. JCC - KITCHEN CLASS - SIMULTANEOUS
Leah divvies the baking supplies from her milk crate to the
different tables.
...She sneaks a bag of multi colored sprinkles into her
apron.
HANNAH
Gilda is married to Michael.
FRAN
Gilda is not married to Michael.
HANNAH
You want to stand around arguing
about this trivial nonsense?
FRAN
What’s trivial? You’re wrong.
HANNAH
I don’t care if I’m wrong -- I’m
not having this discussion on
principal.
Leah quickly paints her challah bread in a coating of sugar
glaze. She takes the sprinkles she stole and pours them all
over the challah.
HANNAH (CONT'D)
Leah! What are you doing?
LEAH
Nothing!
HANNAH
Do you want to play games? Do you
want to make bread for nudniks? Is
this Leah’s nudnik cafe?
LEAH
No.
HANNAH
You want to take that home and say
that’s what you have been baking
here in my class? I don’t think so.
LEAH
I didn’t do anything!29.
29.
HANNAH
Oh, shush!
Hannah takes Leah’s challah and tosses it into the trash can.
48 48
INT. JCC - KITCHEN CLASS - CONTINUOUS
The women clean their stations. They all have completed
challahs except Leah.
49 49
INT. JCC - KITCHEN CLASS - CONTINUOUS
As everyone packs their things and put their jackets on, Leah
sneaks her sprinkle challah from the garbage and hides it in
her tote bag.
50 50
INT. JCC - CAFE KITCHEN - SIMULTANEOUS
Seymour listens to the radio.
DAVID
Alright buddy, I gotta kick you out
so I can close this place up.
SEYMOUR
Hey no problem buddy. Thanks for
letting me hang out.
DAVID
All good boss.
Seymour and David do their secret handshake.
SEYMOUR
My Dad’s probably almost done
working now anyway.
51 51
INT. JCC - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
As Seymour passes through the lobby he sees Leah reading her
book by the entrance.
SEYMOUR
Are you in the cooking class?
LEAH
Yes.
SEYMOUR
Is it a lesbo-fest?30.
30.
LEAH
Um, no.
SEYMOUR
I was just listening to the game in
the back of the cafe with David.
Leah nods.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
What were you guys making in that
class?
She takes out the sprinkle challah.
LEAH
It was in the garbage for a bit but
I got it back.
SEYMOUR
Sprinkle challah -- that’s awesome!
Leah looks surprised at his excitement.
Leah sees a minivan pull into the lot. She gets ready to rush
out.
LEAH
Yah. Do you want it?
SEYMOUR
You’ll give me it?
LEAH
I gotta go. Do you want it or not?
SEYMOUR
Damn. Alright.
She gives it to him. He looks quite pleased. Leah rushes out
to the minivan.
52 52
INT. LEAH'S DAD'S MINIVAN - CONTINUOUS
Leah enters through the sliding door.
All seven seats are taken by her Dad and brothers, who hold
multiple conversations, in Yiddish, about business and
ethics.
She sits on the ground. None of them say hi or acknowledge
her.31.
31.
53 53
INT. JCC - SIMULTANEOUS
Seymour blasts metal on his headphones as he walks to the
boardroom.
54 54
INT. JCC - BOARD ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Seymour pokes his head in --
Arnold is on a phone call. Igor sorts through paperwork.
Upon seeing Seymour, Arnold holds up his finger signaling him
to wait.
Igor looks sympathetic to Seymour.
Seymour leaves the room.
55 55
INT. JCC - HALLWAY - NIGHT
Seymour sits on the ground and waits by the board room door.
He listens to his headphones and eats the sprinkle challah
that Leah gave him.
Igor comes out of the board room and kneels down. He is less
senile and his tone is more gentle.
Seymour takes his headphone off.
IGOR
Just a lot of work to get done
before the holiday. He won’t be too
much longer, alright?
Seymour puts his headphones back on. Igor sighs and goes back
into the room.
56 56
OMITTED
57 57
OMITTED
58 58
OMITTED
59 59
OMITTED
60 60
OMITTED32.
32.
61 61
EXT. LUCIENSKI HOUSE - NIGHT
A stucco town house.
62 62
INT. LUCIENSKI HOUSE - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Seymour knocks on Arnold’s office door.
ARNOLD
Yeah?
SEYMOUR
Can I come in?
63 63
INT. LUCIENSKI HOUSE - ARNOLD’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
Arnold and Igor rummage through paperwork. Seymour enters.
ARNOLD
What you got son?
SEYMOUR
I need advice.
ARNOLD
So? Spit it out.
SEYMOUR
I got a girl I’m thinking about.
ARNOLD
A girl eh? Which girl?
SEYMOUR
I’m not saying. But I’m wondering
if I should ask her out.
ARNOLD
What? What do you mean you’re
wondering? Why wouldn’t you? What
are you asking exactly?
Seymour shrugs. He looks shy and dumbfounded.
SEYMOUR
...If I should ask her out.
ARNOLD
What kind of question is that?
SEYMOUR
I dunno.33.
33.
ARNOLD
Don’t overthink it Seymour.
SEYMOUR
I wasn’t.
ARNOLD
Good.
Arnold goes back to his paperwork.
Seymour looks unsure of himself.
Igor gives Seymour a smile and a nod.
64 64
INT. JCC - KITCHEN CLASS - DAY
Leah is in cooking class. She kneads dough. The other women
yammer on.
Seymour stands in the hallway and tries to get Leah’s
attention. She tries to ignore him. She looks worried about
what the other women will say.
WOMAN
Seymour, we’re in class. Why are
you interrupting? Go away.
SEYMOUR
Can I just ask her something?
Everyone looks at Leah.
LEAH
...Me?
SEYMOUR
Yeah.
65 65
INT. JCC - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Leah looks embarrassed. She impatiently picks dough off her
hands.
SEYMOUR
So, listen -- I’m just wondering
something.
LEAH
Wondering what?34.
34.
SEYMOUR
Well, here goes nothing -- I’m
wondering if you wanted to go out
some time.
Seymour looks as if it’s caused him physical pain to even
ask.
Leah looks away.
LEAH
I can’t.
SEYMOUR
Ah, damn really?
LEAH
Sorry.
SEYMOUR
Fuck. Ok. Cool.
Seymour leaves.
66 66
INT. JCC - HALLWAY - LATER
Seymour wears his headphones. He stares at his feet as he
walks.
Leah waits around the corner.
When Seymour gets to the end of the hall Leah pushes him
against the wall. His headphones fall onto the ground.
Leah quickly and awkwardly kisses him.
LEAH
Thanks for asking me.
Seymour is dough eyed.
SEYMOUR
Um. Ya. No problem.
Leah scurries off.
Seymour cannot wipe the smile off his face.
67 67
OMITTED35.
35.
68 68
INT. JCC - NIGHT
Seymour stands with Leah.
He eats some rugelach that she made.
LEAH
Is it good?
SEYMOUR
Yeah. Can I have another one?
Leah gives him another one.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
How come everyone else in the class
is old and you’re not?
LEAH
My Mom is dead so I need cooking
lessons.
SEYMOUR
Well my Mom’s gone too.
Leah keeps looking out the window. She waits for her Dad’s
minivan.
LEAH
You should go before my Dad gets
here.
He continues to stand there.
LEAH (CONT'D)
Seymour!
She smiles and pushes him. He smiles as well.
69 69
EXT. JCC - BASKETBALL COURT - DAY
It’s grey and cold.
Seymour tosses his gym bag onto the basketball court. Leah
follows him.
LEAH
Are we allowed to go here?
SEYMOUR
For sure.
Leah looks suspicious.36.
36.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
You know how to play basketball?
LEAH
Um, no?
SEYMOUR
Alright. Well I’ll show you how
it’s done. So you take a ball and
you bounce it.
LEAH
What ball?
SEYMOUR
Pretend there’s a ball.
Seymour dribbles a pretend basketball to the other side of
the court.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
You always have to dribble it while
you’re moving.
Leah watches him.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
So one guy goes for that net and
the other guy goes for that net.
And you’ve got to shoot it and get
it in. And in the meantime you’ve
got to steal the ball from the
other guy.
Seymour shoots the ball and gets a three pointer.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
Oh shit! Did you see that? Three
pointer.
LEAH
Ok?
SEYMOUR
Because I got it in from this far.
If you only get it in from this far
it’s only one point. And some guys
can dunk it. Which is an awesome
way of slamming it into the net.
Leah walks towards him. Seymour gets around her and shoots
again.37.
37.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
Get your defense up.
He dribbles the ball more. Leah comes after him she steals
the ball and rushes it to the net.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
You’ve got to dribble it while you
run.
She pretends to dribble it.
LEAH
Do I shoot it now?
SEYMOUR
Yes!
She shoots it.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
LAYUP. Four one.
LEAH
Did it go in?
SEYMOUR
Hell yeah.
He passes her the ball.
70 70
EXT. LEAH’S HOUSE - NIGHT
Rows of near identical town houses.
The streets are dead quiet. It’s the middle of the night.
Seymour rustles around the side of the house. He squeezes
along the brick.
SEYMOUR
Fuck.
He gets to the yard. He props himself up and peaks into the
window.
It’s pitch black. He sees one of Leah’s brother’s sleeping.
He falls down.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
Shit.38.
38.
He scurries farther over -- eventually getting to another
window. He looks in. Leah is asleep on the bed.
Seymour quietly knocks on the window.
Leah wakes up. She opens the window and whispers down to him.
LEAH
What took you so long?
SEYMOUR
I had obstacles.
LEAH
Are you going to catch me?
SEYMOUR
It’s not that high up.
LEAH
Seymour you better catch me! I
don’t want to fall into those
bushes, they’re prickly!
SEYMOUR
Just come down.
Leah hops out of the window. Seymour awkwardly catches her
and does a decent job of making sure she doesn’t fall into
the prickly bushes.
71 71
EXT. PARK - NIGHT
Seymour and Leah sit beside a pond. Seymour gives her a
granola bar. She looks at the label.
LEAH
This isn’t even kosher Seymour.
SEYMOUR
Oh.
She gives it back to him. He goes to take it. Their hands
touch.
Seymour stops chewing...
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
...We already kissed I guess, so I
guess we can hold hands, right?
LEAH
I kissed you, you didn’t kiss me.39.
39.
SEYMOUR
So?
LEAH
It means I’m beating you.
Seymour kisses her.
LEAH (CONT'D)
I still have more points than you.
SEYMOUR
No you don’t.
She holds his hand. He nods.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
Fine.
72 72
INT. JCC - NIGHT
Leah waits for her Dad to arrive.
Seymour stands with her.
She gives Seymour a paper bag of black and white cookies.
LEAH
Now get out of here before my Dad
shows up.
SEYMOUR
Can I walk you home?
LEAH
Seymour. Don’t be stupid.
SEYMOUR
Maybe next time?
LEAH
Just take these cookies and get out
of here.
SEYMOUR
Can I come to your house again
tonight?
Leah looks to see if the minivan is coming.
LEAH
...Fine! But just go before my Dad
comes.40.
40.
She pushes him away again.
73 73
INT. JCC - CONTINUOUS
Seymour eats the cookies and walks to the board room. He
still can’t wipe the smile off his face.
74 74
OMITTED
INT. LEAH'S HOUSE - LEAH’S ROOM - NIGHT
75 75
Leah passes Seymour a chair.
He uses it to climb into her window. She whispers to him.
LEAH
If you aren’t totally quiet my Dad
is going to slice your head off.
I’m not kidding.
SEYMOUR
Ok.
Talk quieter.
LEAH
SEYMOUR
Ok.
They stare at each other.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
This is your room?
LEAH
Just shut up.
She takes her top off.
Seymour’s eyes go wide.
They make out.
76 76
EXT. LEAH'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - MORNING
Seymour sneaks through the prickly bushes and tries to find a
way out back to the street.41.
41.
77 77
OMITTED
78 78
OMITTED
79 79
OMITTED
80 80
INT. LEAH'S HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY
Leah enters and throws up in the toilet.
She lays on the ground, holds her stomach and closes her eyes
until someone starts banging on the door.
81 81
INT. LEAH'S HOUSE - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
YOSEF (Leah’s brother, twenty) repeatedly smashes his fist
against the bathroom door.
He squeezes his crotch in pain.
YOSEF
Leah! Open the door! I need to go
badly. LEAH!
LEAH
GO OUTSIDE ASSHOLE. FUCK OFF.
Yosef is taken aback by her response.
82 82
INT. JCC - KITCHEN CLASS - NIGHT
Leah peels beets amongst the others.
There is something different about her. She moves slowly and
carefully.
Some of the women in the class are crowded together. They
talk quietly... and keep looking at Leah.
83 83
INT. JCC - LATER
As the class members clean their stations for the day --
Hannah approaches Leah...
HANNAH
Leah... would you mind if I talked
to you about something?42.
42.
LEAH
My Dad’s going to pick me up soon.
He’ll be really mad if I’m not
ready when he’s there.
Hannah puts her hand on Leah’s shoulder.
HANNAH
Leah, I know it’s not my business
what you do outside of our class
but... I couldn’t help but notice
you’re spending a lot of time with
Arnold Lucienski’s son...
Leah nods.
HANNAH (CONT'D)
...Is everything going okay?
LEAH
Yup.
HANNAH
If you ever need someone to talk
to... I’m here for you okay? I knew
your mother since we were young.
Leah looks away.
HANNAH (CONT'D)
...Sorry Leah. I just want to make
sure everything is okay. I can’t
help but notice you acting
different lately... and I just want
to make sure... Leah... are you and
Seymour... you know?
LEAH
...Are we what?
HANNAH
You know... intimate? You can tell
me Leah.
A group of the women stand in the corner and listen in on
their conversation.
Leah looks embarrassed. She takes her things and leaves the
class.43.
43.
84 84
INT. JCC - NIGHT
Leah trusts Hannah eventually... and confides in her that
she’s pregnant...
85 85
INT. JCC - DAY
Leah’s hands are all red from the beets. She wears Seymour’s
headphones and listens to metal.
She makes a disgruntled face and takes the headphones off.
LEAH
Ugh Seymour... that’s awful.
SEYMOUR
Sabbath fuckin rules!
LEAH
Sabbath? It’s Tuesday.
SEYMOUR
Black Sabbath!
LEAH
What is that?
SEYMOUR
The name of the band.
LEAH
Are they Jews?
SEYMOUR
No.
LEAH
Then why are they called that?
Seymour shrugs.
Leah stares at him. It is difficult to discern if she is
angry or affectionate.
LEAH (CONT'D)
I don’t think you should come over
tonight.
Seymour looks upset.
LEAH (CONT'D)
I’m just feeling kind of tired, ok?44.
44.
SEYMOUR
Ok. Cool. Yeah.
LEAH
You should go before my Dad gets
here.
Seymour continues to stand with her.
86 86
OMITTED
87 87
OMITTED
88 88
EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY
Seymour plays basketball -- with a real ball.
Two of Leah’s brothers come onto the court. Yosef and SHLOMO.
Shlomo steals the ball from him and starts dribbling across
the court. Shlomo makes the basket.
SEYMOUR
Huh?
SHLOMO pushes Seymour.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
What the fuck man.
Seymour gets up and goes to push him back.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
Fucking fags.
YOSEF
You come near Leah again, we will
kill you. This is not a joke.
89 89
INT. JCC - HALLWAY - KITCHEN CLASS - NIGHT
Seymour peaks into Leah’s class... she isn’t there.
Hannah sees him. He takes off down the hall.
Hannah follows him.
HANNAH
Seymour.45.
45.
He ignores her and keeps walking.
HANNAH (CONT'D)
SEYMOUR.
SEYMOUR
What?
HANNAH
Come here. Now.
He turns around but doesn’t come.
SEYMOUR
What?
HANNAH
You won’t see Leah again.
SEYMOUR
Fuck you cunt.
Hannah gasps.
90 90
EXT. LEAH'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Seymour sneaks around the side of the house. He goes to
Leah’s window and quietly taps on the window.
Leah is already up. She comes over.
LEAH
Seymour... you can’t be here.
SEYMOUR
What’s going on? Why’s everyone so
fucked up?
LEAH
I can’t see you right now.
SEYMOUR
Why man?
LEAH
Please Seymour. I can’t talk to you
right now. Just go.
SEYMOUR
Can I just come in?
LEAH
NO. Leave Seymour.46.
46.
SEYMOUR
Can you come out?
LEAH
No.
SEYMOUR
Leah, please.
Leah looks very sad...
LEAH
I’m pregnant Seymour.
Seymour is blindsided by this.
SEYMOUR
Damn.
LEAH
My Dad is going to kill you.
Seymour takes Leah’s hand from the window.
SEYMOUR
Leah...
LEAH
Seymour, my Dad and my brothers
will kill you if they see you here.
You need to leave ok?
SEYMOUR
No.
LEAH
Please Seymour.
She takes her hand away. She shuts the window.
SEYMOUR
Leah!
Shlomo, Yosef and two others open her bedroom door.
Seymour makes fists.
LEAH
Don’t hurt him Shlomo. He’ll go
away. Just don’t hurt him. Please!
YOSEF
That little bastard. What did I
say? What did I say to you man?47.
47.
Shlomo pushes Leah and goes after the window. He yells
something in Hebrew. Some of the other brothers rush in.
Seymour stretches out his arms and his neck and gets ready to
fight. He waits with his fists up.
LEAH
Seymour get out of here!
Seymour doesn’t listen to her.
Two of Leah’s brothers come from the side of the house. Yosef
and Shlomo crawl through the window.
Seymour is surrounded. He gets a few good swings in but he
can’t beat them all.
91 91
INT. LEAH'S HOUSE - DAY
Seymour’s face is beat up from the fight with Leah’s
brothers.
Arnold and Seymour sit on a couch across from MOSHE, Leah’s
Dad and two of Leah’s oldest brothers. Moshe is heavy set,
he’s bigger and more intimidating than anyone else in the
room.
MOSHE
I know you’re a leader the
community Mr. Luceinski... I too am
a leader in mine. The child will no
doubt be a mamzer.
ARNOLD
...What’s that?
Moshe nods...
MOSHE
But I will say this -- a mamzer who
is a Torah scholar say the sages,
precedes an ignorant High Priest.
ARNOLD
Right. Well it won’t be a bastard
kid. Seymour can step up to the
plate.
MOSHE
If it’s God’s will... it’s God’s
will.
Arnold nods.48.
48.
MOSHE (CONT'D)
What synagogue are you a member of?
ARNOLD
Well we’ve got the congregation at
the JCC.
Moshe looks disapprovingly.
MOSHE
You say you’re Jewish but... do you
practice Shabbat? Do you celebrate
Yom Kippur?
Arnold gets angry with this... Moshe accuses him of not even
being a real Jew, despite his position.
If him and Leah don’t get married then he can’t see the baby.
92 92
INT. ORTHODOX SYNAGOGUE - DAY
Seymour is with Leah’s brother’s at a very religious
synagogue. They lead him through the prayers. He seems to be
screwing up quite a bit. But he tries to be a “real jew”
He is not good at being religious.
93 93
EXT. SYNAGOGUE - DAY
SEYMOUR
This fucking sucks!
Leah and Seymour walk together. Her brothers are watching.
LEAH
I’m sorry Seymour.
SEYMOUR
Why.
LEAH
I’m sorry I got pregnant.
SEYMOUR
It’s okay.
LEAH
Seymour, my father has found
someone for me to marry.
SEYMOUR
Who?49.
49.
Seymour loses it.
This would be the last time that they see each other.
94 94
INT. BOXING GYM - RING - NIGHT
A championship match -- parents and siblings are in the
audience... Arnold isn’t there.
It’s a fair match but Seymour almost loses. Just as he’s
about to get KO’d -- Seymour gets up and destroys his
OPPONENT.
He goes so far that Mickey and the others intervene to break
it up. They can’t keep Seymour off the guy. Seymour beats him
to a bloody pulp.
95 95
INT. ORTHODOX SYNAGOGUE - DAY
Seymour isn’t good at being religious.
He gets angry at them about Leah’s other marriage.
96 96
INT. BOXING GYM - DAY
Instead of boxing... Seymour must now be religious. He quits
boxing.
97 97
INT. SYNAGOGUE - DAY
Seymour tries to learn to be religious.
98 98
INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT
Seymour and Arnold go for a bite to eat.
SEYMOUR
I’m supposed to eat kosher.
ARNOLD
We’re all supposed to eat kosher.
They open their menus.50.
50.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
I don’t know if I’m qualified,
Seymour, to give you advice with
women -- you know -- well, you may
not be able to live up to their
standard of being the religious
type, and I know school hasn’t been
easy on you, but maybe we can find
you a job, and then you can work.
Seymour nods.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
I know I’ve got my faults and I
don’t know jack shit about good
parenting but I got my work and I
hope that’s meant something in what
it means to have been there --
SEYMOUR
It does.
Arnold gives him one of his mother’s rings. He says he’s too
young to get married but he can if he wants to. He can work
and do his best and if that isn’t good enough for them...
99 99
INT. LEAH'S COUSIN’S HOUSE - NIGHT
Leah’s cousin helps her away from the community. She leaves a
note for Seymour.
She leaves them a contact ... but says to only use if for
emergency. They don't tell Seymour
100 100
EXT. LEAH'S HOUSE - DAY
Leah's family think Seymour has taken her ... but it wasn't
him...
101 101
EXT. LEAH’S HOUSE - DAY
Seymour walks to Leah’s house.
He knocks on the door -- and waits. Shlomo answers. Yosef
stands behind him.
SEYMOUR
Is Leah here?
YOSEF
No. Get off our property.51.
51.
SEYMOUR
Where is she?
YOSEF
Don’t make us tell you again.
Seymour reaches into his jacket pocket and shows them the
wedding ring box.
For a moment Yosef look sympathetic -- but he holds it back.
YOSEF (CONT'D)
She’s gone to live with her
cousins. And for you -- who isn’t
even a real jew -- she’s being
married to someone else.
SEYMOUR
She doesn’t want to marry someone
else.
Yosef shrugs and shakes his head.
YOSEF
Go get your money back for that
ring. And never come back. If I see
you again -- I will cut off your
balls and feed them to a mule.
He slams the door in Seymour’s face.
102 102
INT. SYNAGOGUE - DAY
Seymour enters the synagogue.
He puts on his kippah. He goes to the Rabbi’s office and
knocks on the door.
He puts the books back onto the Rabbi’s desk.
RABBI
What?
SEYMOUR
I’m quitting.
RABBI
You can try.
SEYMOUR
No. I’m done.52.
52.
RABBI
Do you expect me to beg you to
stay? So? You quit. Go. Seymour
leaves.
103 103
INT. ARNOLD & SEYMOUR'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Igor, Seymour and Arnold sit on the couch and watch the
basketball game.
104 104
OMITTED
105 105
OMITTED
106 106
EXT. SPORTS STORE - DAY
Seymour, now in his thirties, stalky and heavy, gets out of a
high top cargo van and tosses a fountain soda into an
overflowing trash can.
The company logo on his shirt matches the logo on the cargo
truck. It is for an internet technician service called QUARTZ
MODEMS LTD.
107 107
INT. SPORTS STORE - DAY
Seymour looks at a cable and fidgets with a modem.
The SPORTS STORE MANAGER looks skeptical of him.
SPORTS STORE MANAGER
The last guy said mice have been
chewing on the cables, but there’s
no mice here -- I’ve got traps set
and no food left out --
SEYMOUR
-- Try it now.
The Sports Store Manager goes to his computer. He nods. The
internet seems to work now.
108 108
EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
A decrepit stucco building...53.
53.
109 109
INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
Seymour is mostly hidden behind a desk. He fumbles with an
adapter that can hardly reach the wall.
A PROFFESOR longingly stares out the window and sighs.
After a few moments the modem lights flash on. Seymour gets
up and passes the Professor a metal clipboard. After they
sign Seymour rips off their carbon copy of the document.
110 110
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO VAN - MOVING - DAY
Seymour’s cell phone rings.
SEYMOUR
Yah?
BRUNO
Seymour, Bruno here.
SEYMOUR
Hey Bruno.
BRUNO
Question for you.
SEYMOUR
Yah.
BRUNO
I think we blew a circuit here...
your Dad said you might be able to
take a look.
SEYMOUR
Right.
BRUNO
Can you make it over?
SEYMOUR
...Yah.
111 111
OMITTED
112 112
OMITTED
113 113
OMITTED54.
54.
114 114
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
ARNOLD and IGOR sit across from one another at a window-side
table. They are both in their seventies.
Arnold is Seymour’s Dad. Their statures are similar but
Arnold isn’t as heavy as Seymour.
Igor is tall and fragile looking. He stares indiscriminately -
- lost in thought.
Arnold reads the newspaper and sips a coffee.
Igor slams his fist on the table.
IGOR
Patti Swizlowsky... Patti
Swizlowsky...
ARNOLD
Quiet down.
IGOR
Patti Swizlowsky from the second
floor... she bangs on my door this
morning at the crack of dawn and
says -- Hey Igor, I need fifty
bucks -- I say to her, fifty bucks?
Not a chance -- She says to me --
ARNOLD
-- Igor, you senile old bastard,
Patti Swizlowsky’s been dead for
years...
IGOR
...Alright, explain this then -- if
Patti Swizlowsky’s dead -- how’s it
that every bastard on the second
floor has ended up in line at the
clinic with a case of HIV?
ARNOLD
I’ll tell you how. Those shameless
shmucks couldn’t keep from jamming
their pricks up a dead woman’s ass!
Arnold bursts out laughing but Igor takes this seriously.
IGOR
Disgraceful.55.
55.
115 115
EXT. JCC - DAY
Seymour’s cargo van pulls into the lot.
116 116
INT. JCC - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
Seymour walks to the reception area with his metal clipboard.
The receptionist, GALE, is in her sixties and is unfriendly.
SEYMOUR
Is my Dad around?
GALE
I haven’t seen him.
SEYMOUR
Alright can you call Bruno and let
him know I’m here?
Gale picks up the phone.
117 117
INT. JCC - BASEMENT - HALLWAY - DAY
Seymour follows BRUNO, seventies, to the end of the hall.
Bruno unlocks a door.
118 118
INT. JCC - BASEMENT - ELECTRICAL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
The room is packed full of holiday decorations, sports
equipment and broken furniture. Seymour climbs over it all
and goes to the electrical box. He turns on a flashlight and
inspects it.
SEYMOUR
Hey Bruno.
BRUNO
Yeah?
SEYMOUR
It’s pretty fucked here man.
Seymour touches a freed cable and shocks himself.
119 119
INT. JCC - LOBBY - DAY
Seymour finishes filling out a form.56.
56.
SEYMOUR
I’d quote nineteen hundred. That’s
before tax. For equipment and
labour.
He hands the form to HAL, seventies, who stands with Bruno.
HAL
That’s a bit more expensive than
what we’ve got budgeted.
Seymour stares at him.
HAL (CONT'D)
...We’ve only got twelve hundred.
SEYMOUR
Alright pass it back.
Seymour changes some things on the form.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
I’m removing my usual kit fee. So
that brings us down to sixteen
fifty.
Hal looks stressed out.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
If I head to the equipment shop now
I can get started tomorrow and have
this done by the end of the week.
BRUNO
I’ll start moving the crap out of
the storage closet then.
HAL
Seymour maybe you could give him a
hand with that.
SEYMOUR
What’s Gary doing? Just push it
into the corner, I’ll work around
it.
BRUNO
Sounds good.
120 120
INT. SEYMOUR’S CARGO VAN - MOVING - DAY
Seymour blasts metal and blankly stares at the traffic ahead.57.
57.
121 121
EXT. ELECTRONICS WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
Seymour’s cargo van turns into the parking lot.
122 122
INT. ELECTRONICS WAREHOUSE - DAY
Seymour enters --
An ELECTRONICS WAREHOUSE EMPLOYEE fidgets behind the till.
SEYMOUR
Are there any lanes free out back?
I’ve got a lot of gear to haul out.
ELECTRONICS WAREHOUSE EMPLOYEE
Should be all good buddy.
Seymour goes back to the parking lot.
123 123
INT. SEYMOUR’S CARGO VAN - MOVING - CONTINUOUS
Seymour turns into the loading dock. Every lane is full.
SEYMOUR
What the fuck...
Seymour rolls down his window.
A DRIVER smokes a cigarette and leans on his truck.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
MAN, HOW LONG ARE YOU GOING TO BE?
DRIVER
Huh?
The Driver walks towards Seymour.
SEYMOUR
Fuckin bitch.
Seymour speeds back to the front of the warehouse.
124 124
INT. ELECTRONICS WAREHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
Seymour pushes a shopping cart past the Electronics Warehouse
Employee.
SEYMOUR
Man, not a single one of those
lanes is open!58.
58.
ELECTRONICS WAREHOUSE EMPLOYEE
Damn, really? Well, sorry about
that.
SEYMOUR
Pretty fucked.
125 125
EXT. ELECTRONICS STORE - LATER
Seymour packs the cargo van to the brim with gear.
He is sweating and frustrated.
126 126
EXT. SHOPPING PLAZA / JCC - DAY
Arnold and Igor leave the shopping plaza and walk across the
street to the JCC.
127 127
INT. JCC - DAY
Arnold and Igor walk through the lobby. Arnold holds his mail
and his newspaper.
STUART, an anxious looking man in his seventies, loiters
around the front desk.
IGOR
Hey, Stuart --
STUART
What?
IGOR
Stay off the second floor --
STUART
I live on the second floor.
IGOR
That’s all I’m saying, you can
thank me later.
Stuart looks confused.
IGOR (CONT'D)
Oh, and good riddance to Patti
Swizlowsky.
STUART
Ya, what about her?59.
59.
IGOR
I heard they didn’t have the
equipment at the doc’s office to
tie her damn tubes -- they had to
send her to a specialist. They
referred her to the damn vet!
ARNOLD
Will you shut your mouth about
Patti Swizlowsky?
Igor does a hail mary as they walk into a board room --
128 128
INT. JCC - BOARD ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Hal, Bruno and Eli, all in their seventies, are crowded
around a board room table. Arnold and Igor enter.
Hal passes Arnold a stack of papers. Arnold mutters as he
reads.
ARNOLD
What’s this about chlorine in the
swimming pool?
BRUNO
They want more chlorine in the
swimming pool.
ARNOLD
Says who?
ELI
Donna Silver.
IGOR
Donna Silver? She’d need a bucket
of chlorine to herself to clear
that old yeast infected cunt --
ARNOLD
--Igor. Quiet.
ELI
...Donna Silver. The aqua-fit
coach. She’s requested more in the
pool.
ARNOLD
Fine.
Arnold signs a piece of paper and flips to another.60.
60.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Bruno, go let Stuart in. He’s
pacing around the lobby like a
schmuck.
BRUNO
Does he have business?
ARNOLD
Just bring him in.
Bruno gets Stuart from the lobby. Stuart enters sheepishly.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
Stuart, get in here. You’re making
everyone nervous. What’s going on?
STUART
I have a request -- but I wanted to
wait and ask you in private.
ARNOLD
Just spit it out.
Stuart looks around the room dubiously. He pulls a piece of
paper from his pocket.
STUART
I’ve written an article that I want
to submit for publication in the
weekly newsletter.
Arnold waves for it to be brought to him. He sees the
headline --
ARNOLD
You think our community needs this
trash? Nobody wants to see your
anti-Muslim propaganda --
STUART
The hell they don’t! I’m telling
you Arnold, I’ve read their
scriptures, they’ll kill us all!
It’s all over the TV -- they strap
bombs to their own children!
IGOR
Stuart, you sick fuck, you
better learn to keep your
prick out of Patti
Swizlowsky’s ass, and tell
that aquafit coach that
chlorine won’t cure her HIV!
STUART (CONT'D)
I’m just writing what’s on
everyone’s mind Arnold, it’s
the truth and everyone in
this room knows it! If we
don’t do something about
those Jihadists --61.
61.
ARNOLD
-- Get out Stuart. Show some
respect. Bruno, get him out of
here.
Bruno tosses him out. Arnold shakes his head.
IGOR
Unbelievable.
ARNOLD
How are the books Hal?
HAL
...We’re a bit over.
ARNOLD
Over? On what?
HAL
It’s got to do with that internet
setup. I know you said Seymour
would give us a good price but he’s
quoted higher than what we
budgeted.
ARNOLD
Did you tell him what we have?
HAL
I told him. But I’m not going to
argue with him Arnold. He’s your
kid. You’re the one who set this
up.
ARNOLD
For Christ’s sake --
129 129
OMITTED
130 130
OMITTED
131 131
OMITTED
132 132
EXT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DRIVE-THRU - SIMULTANEOUS
Seymour’s cargo van is in line at the drive-thru.62.
62.
133 133
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO VAN - SIMULTANEOUS
The cargo van is filled to the brim with electronics.
Seymour’s cell phone rings. He answers it.
SEYMOUR
Hey Dad, you at the center? I’m
just grabbing a bite across the
street and then I’m heading over --
ARNOLD
-- Seymour, what’s this meshugas
I’m hearing about you pushing back
on our offer?
SEYMOUR
I already knocked off my kit fee.
You want me to do the work, that’s
what it costs.
ARNOLD
You know what Seymour, you should
be grateful to have the opportunity
to contribute for once in your damn
life. How about that?
SEYMOUR
My truck is packed to the brim with
gear but if you want to call it off
I’ll just turn around and take it
all back.
ARNOLD
What kind of schmuck did I raise?
Show some respect Seymour. We’ll
talk about this later.
Arnold hangs up. Seymour snaps the phone shut and tosses it
at the passenger side door.
Seymour white knuckles the steering wheel as he waits for the
line to move. He watches Vlad pass a customer their change
from the drive-thru window ahead.
Seymour punches the steering wheel. It beeps. Everyone looks.
134 134
OMITTED63.
63.
135 135
EXT. RETIREMENT COMMUNITY - NIGHT
An apartment building across from the JCC.
136 136
INT. RETIREMENT COMMUNITY - ARNOLD'S UNIT - LIVING ROOM -
CONTINUOUS
Seymour, Arnold and Igor watch the hockey game.
They eat burgers, fries, onion rings and sodas from the
restaurant.
IGOR
Lemme ask you something.
SEYMOUR
What.
IGOR
This whole internet thing... It’s
nothing but a damn whorehouse. Bob
Reinholds hasn’t left his room in
weeks. All he does is look at
pictures of shiksas. All day and
all night. He doesn’t eat or sleep
or nothing. He was better off in
Auschwitz.
SEYMOUR
So?
IGOR
So hook me up with it.
SEYMOUR
You don’t even have a computer.
IGOR
Arnold, give me yours.
ARNOLD
The hell I will.
IGOR
I know you could take those pliers
and hook me into that internet
whorehouse in under ten minutes.
SEYMOUR
I’ll quote you the same as anyone
else.64.
64.
IGOR
What a scam. Give me some pliers
and I’ll do it myself.
SEYMOUR
I’ve got a business to run you
fuckin asshole! And if you guys
don’t have any respect for what I
do then --
ARNOLD
--Seymour, if your entire sense of
self worth is based on your
earnings then you’ve got bigger
problems!
SEYMOUR
Did you raise me to take shit from
assholes?
ARNOLD
You want to be a useless son of a
bitch and say no to the job -- I’ll
get someone else -- I can open up
the phone book, I don’t care. That
wasn’t the point.
Seymour stares at the game. Seymour looks angry.
ARNOLD (CONT'D)
But don’t ask me for any favors.
They watch the game in silence until one of the players gets
bashed into the boards.
IGOR
Look at this shlemiel, everyone
knows he’s got frost bite on his
shmeckle...
SEYMOUR
Ya... How’s that Igor? How’s he got
frostbite on his fuckin wang?
IGOR
From schtupping the coach’s wife
behind the zamboni!
Seymour and Arnold try but fail at holding back their laughs.
Igor shakes his head at them.65.
65.
137 137
EXT. LEGAL OFFICE - DAY
Seymour’s cargo van is parked in the lot.
138 138
INT. LEGAL OFFICE - DAY
Seymour holds a screw driver and inspects a modem’s circuit
board. Both him and the LAWYER look upward. There is water
damage on the ceiling.
LAWYER
That leak’s been fixed for years.
SEYMOUR
There’s rust on the circuit board.
LAWYER
Why’d you guys install it there
then, if there was clearly water
damage --
Seymour looks dumbfounded.
139 139
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DAY
Arnold and Igor sit across from one another at the window.
Arnold sips his coffee and reads the newspaper.
Igor stares indiscriminately -- he is lost in thought.
140 140
EXT. DOWNTOWN - DAY
Seymour’s cargo truck inches along with the traffic.
141 141
OMITTED
142 142
EXT. DOWNTOWN - OFFICE BUILDING - DAY
Seymour parks his cargo van and puts on his hazards. He gets
out and starts unloading some gear onto a dolly.
A PARKING COP patrols the block.
PARKING COP
You can’t unload here.
Seymour ignores him.66.
66.
PARKING COP (CONT'D)
Hey, sir...
Seymour stops.
SEYMOUR
Hey man -- either write the fucking
ticket or shut the fuck up!
Seymour continues to unload his gear.
PARKING COP
Asshole.
SEYMOUR
Fuck off.
143 143
INT. JCC - COMMON AREA - DAY
Arnold and Igor sit in some comfy chairs.
Igor watches a YOUNG MOM rock her baby stroller back and
forth while Arnold sorts through his mail.
Arnold discards most of the letters but comes across an
envelope with the logo for the fast food restaurant across
the street.
ARNOLD
Ah ha!
IGOR
Coupons?
ARNOLD
You got it.
He opens the envelope and -- BOOM -- it explodes and blows
Arnold backwards.
The Young Mom screams in terror. Smoke has filled the area.
A fire alarm flashes and blares intermittently.
People panic, scream and rush out of the building.
IGOR
Arnold?
The smoke dissipates -- Igor holds his hand over his eye and
paces deliriously. He looks for his friend.67.
67.
IGOR (CONT'D)
ARNOLD?
Igor finds Arnold on the ground and kneels down to him.
IGOR (CONT'D)
Arnold? Come on.
Igor moves his hand from his face -- revealing blood and
intense burn marks. He tries to wake Arnold up.
Arnold’s face is covered in blood. His body is limp and he is
not responsive.
IGOR (CONT'D)
ARNOLD? Come on, we got to get out
here. Arnold? ARNOLD!
GARY, the custodian and another MAN rush over to help.
144 144
OMITTED
145 145
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - ELEVATOR - SIMULTANEOUS
Seymour is crowded by office workers.
146 146
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - SUPPLY CLOSET - DAY
Seymour tries to reach a server tower that is crammed into
the back of the closet.
He pushes a shelf out of his way. It is loaded with dusty
office stationary. A lot of the stationary falls onto the
ground.
Seymour uses a multimeter to test the outlet that the server
tower is plugged into. There is no power.
147 147
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY
Seymour exits the supply closet. An OFFICE MANAGER waits for
him.
SEYMOUR
Can you show me the breaker?
OFFICE MANAGER
Why?68.
68.
SEYMOUR
There isn’t power.
OFFICE MANAGER
Ugh. Follow me.
148 148
EXT. JCC - DAY
Yellow police tape is strung around the entrance.
Emergency vehicles are crowded around the parking lot.
Arnold and Igor are rushed out of the building in stretchers
and put into an ambulance.
149 149
EXT. STREET - SIMULTANEOUS
Ambulances blare their sirens and speed through traffic
lights.
150 150
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Seymour follows the Office Manager. His cell rings, he
answers.
SEYMOUR
Go ahead.
HOSPITAL
Is this Seymour Lucienski?
SEYMOUR
Yup.
HOSPITAL
Seymour, I’m calling from the
Rockyview Hospital -- this is about
your father -- he’s been in an
accident.
SEYMOUR
...What did you just say?
HOSPITAL
Your father, Arnold... he’s been in
an accident. He’s in critical
condition and you’re listed as his -
-69.
69.
151 151
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - ELEVATOR - DAY
Seymour repeatedly pushes the door close button. Someone puts
their hand out to hold the door open for someone else.
Seymour loses his patience and pushes his way out of the
elevator.
152 152
INT. OFFICE BUILDING - STAIRCASE - CONTINUOUS
Seymour rushes down thirty flights of stairs.
153 153
EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
Seymour runs to his cargo van. There is a parking ticket
wedged under the windshield wiper.
154 154
INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY
Paramedics rush Arnold and Igor -- both strapped to
stretchers and hooked to IV’s -- down the hallway.
Arnold is unconscious. Igor isn’t.
IGOR
Arnold! These meshuggah bastards
are going to charge us a fortune
for this -- but don’t fork over a
cent! You got that? Don’t give them
shit! Don’t give them fucking shit!
155 155
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO VAN - MOVING - CONTINUOUS
Seymour speeds through traffic. He lays on the horn and revs
through a red light.
156 156
EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY
Seymour rushes into the hospital.
157 157
INT. HOSPITAL - RECEPTION AREA - CONTINUOUS
Seymour interrupts the RECEPTIONIST’s phone call.
SEYMOUR
Where the fuck is my Dad?70.
70.
RECEPTIONIST
Sorry, I can see you’re very
stressed out at the moment but I’ll
need you to sign in, can you do
that for me?
She offers Seymour a clipboard.
SEYMOUR
Fuck that shit.
Seymour takes off down the hallway.
158 158
INT. HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Seymour frantically looks into the windows of the hospital
rooms.
159 159
INT. HOSPITAL - ARNOLD’S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
A group of DOCTORS and NURSES hover around Arnold.
Seymour tries to push his way into the room.
NURSE
Sir. This is unacceptable. Get out.
SEYMOUR
Dad! Dad, I’m here.
NURSE
Leave NOW. Get out.
The Nurse pushes him out.
160 160
INT. HOSPITAL - WAITING ROOM - NIGHT
The waiting room is full of anxious people.
Seymour’s foot taps as he waits. Somehow he looks the most
distraught of all.
The automatic doors open, Seymour shoots up.
NURSE
Lucienski. Seymour.
SEYMOUR
Yup. Is he good? Is he alright?71.
71.
161 161
INT. HOSPITAL - IGOR’S ROOM - NIGHT
Igor is propped up in a hospital bed. His head and eye are
bandaged.
SEYMOUR
Where’s my Dad though?
NURSE
We’ll have to come get you when
he’s ready. But -- Igor’s listed
you as his emergency contact --
IGOR
Lady, just let the kid see his Dad
already.
NURSE
We’ll get you when it’s time.
She leaves.
Seymour stares at Igor.
IGOR
Seymour...
He doesn’t answer.
IGOR (CONT'D)
Gimmie that remote. Let’s see what
kind of shlock is on here. I doubt
these cheap shlongs are even paying
for basic cable.
Seymour passes him the remote.
Igor looks confused by it.
IGOR (CONT'D)
They’ve got me on some kind of
Gulag anesthetic. Pull that shit
out of my arm.
Seymour takes the remote from him. He turns the TV on --
162 162
INT. HOSPITAL - ARNOLD’S ROOM - NIGHT
A Nurse opens the door for Seymour to enter.
Arnold lies in the hospital bed, unconscious.72.
72.
SEYMOUR
Dad?
Seymour slowly walks towards him. There are burn marks and
bandages on his face.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
DAD.
Seymour shakes him.
NURSE
Don’t do that. Don’t --
The Nurse puts her hand on Seymour’s shoulder.
SEYMOUR
-- Why isn’t he talking? What’s
wrong?
NURSE
He went in cardiac arrest and is in
a coma for the time being. I’ll
need you to a calm down Sir.
Please.
SEYMOUR
Dad, wake up! It’s me Seymour. DAD!
163 163
OMITTED
164 164
INT. HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - NIGHT
A Nurse pushes Igor down the hallway in a wheelchair.
They stop in front of Arnold’s room.
Igor can see Seymour sitting in a chair beside Arnold’s bed.
IGOR
Is he alright?
NURSE
He’s stable.
IGOR
I meant the kid.
NURSE
Oh. Um -- I’m not sure.
The Nurse opens the door.73.
73.
165 165
INT. HOSPITAL - ARNOLD'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
The Nurse pushes Igor into the room. Seymour looks up.
IGOR
Did you check what channels he’s
got?
SEYMOUR
No.
IGOR
Pass me the remote.
The Nurse passes Igor the remote before leaving the room.
Igor tries to turn the TV on but he can’t figure out how to
use the remote.
IGOR (CONT'D)
I’ve only got shit channels in my
room but let’s see whose getting
preferential treatment.
Seymour takes the remote from him and turns it on.
SEYMOUR
Same channels in every room.
IGOR
How do you know?
SEYMOUR
Why wouldn’t they be?
IGOR
Fuck that shit.
Igor flips through the channels. He looks back at Seymour.
Seymour stares at his feet.
IGOR (CONT'D)
Bumped into a buddy of mine in the
cafeteria -- he’s got his face
pushed up against the microwave --
I say to him -- what the hell are
you doing man? Trying to get
yourself sent to the cancer ward?
He says that’s right I am! I heard
the nurses there are blowing the
patients -- free of charge!
SEYMOUR
...Not now Igor.74.
74.
IGOR
I say to him -- but buddy, isn’t
your daughter a nurse there? He
says that’s damn right she is! And
she looks near identical to my wife
twenty five years ago!
Seymour is too upset to laugh.
Igor continues to flip the channels on the TV.
166 166
OMITTED
167 167
INT. HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - DAY
Seymour stands with two police officers in the hallway. One
of them hands Seymour their business card.
POLICE
We’re following a series of leads
but it’s an ongoing investigation
so... there’s a lot to consider
but... we’ll stay in touch.
They all stand awkwardly and wait for Seymour to say
something but he doesn’t.
POLICE (CONT'D)
Is there anyone who you think might
have a reason to do this... to him?
SEYMOUR
...Are you a fucking idiot, man?
POLICE
Mr. Lucienski, please. Let’s
just... stay calm if you can.
SEYMOUR
You think I give a fuck if you’re a
cop? If I had any idea who did this
I would fucking kill them myself.
POLICE
Let’s go ahead and revisit this,
Seymour, I know you’re going
through a lot at the moment so...
Seymour doesn’t say anything.75.
75.
POLICE (CONT'D)
We’ll be in touch in the coming
days.
They leave.
168 168
INT. HOSPITAL - ARNOLD'S ROOM - DAY
Arnold lies in the bed, in a coma.
Hal, Bruno, Eli and Stuart -- from the JCC boardroom, are
crowded in the room.
Igor is in a wheelchair. Seymour enters and readjusts the
pillow that props Igor up.
STUART
Seymour, what’d they say?
SEYMOUR
Nothing.
STUART
Let me ask you something. If it
wasn’t the Muslims... who was it?
Huh? I’d like to ask them that and
see what they say.
ELI
Alright, Stuart, don’t get so
worked up.
STUART
You think I’m wrong?
IGOR
Hey Stuart.
STUART
I wasn’t talking to you Igor.
IGOR
I know Patti Swizlowsky told you
that you were her one and only but -
- what kind of woman gives birth to
a mule at her age?
STUART
I’m not talking to you Igor.76.
76.
IGOR
Maybe it was immaculate
conception... or maybe she was out
fucking horses at the ranch!
BRUNO
Alright guys let’s just take it
easy. Come on.
STUART
I’m trying to voice a legitimate
concern about anti-semitic
terrorism in our community and I
know for a fact that I wasn’t
saying anything that you all
weren’t already thinking.
BRUNO
Stuart, relax. You’re entitled to
your opinions but now isn’t the
time.
STUART
We’ve got two members of our
community -- getting blasted to
smithereens and still nobody wants
to admit it. Huh?
HAL
Hey Seymour, come here a sec.
Hal leads Seymour out of the room. Stuart, Bruno and Igor
continue to bicker.
SEYMOUR
What?
169 169
INT. HOSPITAL - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
HAL
Lemme talk to you about something.
SEYMOUR
What?
HAL
I know we couldn’t make it work at
the center this time -- and that
was out of anyone’s control --
including your Dad’s but -- I’ve
got another opportunity for you.77.
77.
SEYMOUR
How was it out of his control?
HAL
The budgets fixed.
SEYMOUR
That’s bullshit Hal.
HAL
Well I’ve got something I wanted to
talk to you about. It’s a different
job.
SEYMOUR
Uh huh.
HAL
It’s a project that I’m developing
up north... with my son. We could
use someone to set up the internet
up there... it might be good for
you to keep busy, Seymour.
SEYMOUR
I gotta be here for my Dad.
HAL
We’ve got a lot of guys from out of
the country working on site and it
would mean a lot to them to have a
way to be in touch with their
families back home.
SEYMOUR
I don’t think so Hal.
HAL
Listen -- I’m trying to do a favor
for your Dad here. If it was me in
that bed, I’d want my son to keep
moving forward with his life.
Seymour looks at the ground.
HAL (CONT'D)
What’s your day rate again? Remind
me.
SEYMOUR
Sixty five dollars an hour on a
three hour minimum. Before tax.78.
78.
HAL
So I’ll give you ninety bucks an
hour with the same minimum how’s
that? They could use your help as
soon as you could get up there.
This gets Seymour’s attention.
HAL (CONT'D)
Deal?
Seymour looks into Arnold’s room through the window. Igor
sits next to Arnold and talks to Bruno and Eli.
SEYMOUR
Fine.
170 170
EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY
Seymour pushes Igor’s wheelchair into the cargo van. He uses
the same ramp he uses for his servers.
IGOR
Toss the wheelchair.
SEYMOUR
How are you going to get around?
IGOR
Walk. Toss that thing. Do you know
how much they’re going to charge
for it? Fuck that wheelchair.
Seymour throws the wheelchair onto the sidewalk.
He walks Igor to the passenger seat and straps him in.
171 171
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO - NIGHT
Seymour and Igor drive down the road.
SEYMOUR
I’m taking a job up north.
IGOR
That’s what Hal was talking to you
about?
SEYMOUR
I’ll still be back at the hospital
every day to see my Dad.79.
79.
IGOR
You want to leave him suffering
like that? What if something
happens? What the fuck is wrong
with you?
SEYMOUR
I’ll still be back every night and
I can drive you back to your place
at the end of the day. So what’s
the difference?
Igor looks out the window, blankly.
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
He said there’s guys working for
him there -- from out of the
country and they need internet to
talk to their families.
IGOR
That’s a bullshit excuse.
Seymour doesn’t respond.
172 172
EXT. RETIREMENT BUILDING - DAY
Seymour’s cargo truck pulls up. Igor comes out and gets in.
He still wears a bandage on his head.
173 173
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO VAN - CONTINUOUS
They drive in silence.
174 174
EXT. HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS
Igor gets out. Neither of them say anything. The wheelchair
that they tossed is still on the ground.
175 175
OMITTED
176 176
EXT. HIGHWAY - CONTINUOUS
Seymour drives down the highway.80.
80.
177 177
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
Seymour pulls off the highway and drives down a long dirt
road.
178 178
EXT. DIRT FIELD - CONTINUOUS
The dirt road leads to patches of dead grass.
The horizon is empty and barren aside from a construction
site in the distance.
179 179
EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS
Seymour parks the cargo van next to a handful of trucks and
diggers that are randomly parked around a trailer and some
shipping containers.
He gets out and looks at his phone. There is no signal.
Seymour goes to the trailer and knocks on the door.
180 180
INT. TRAILER - DAY
***this has to be combined with following scene***
Seymour bangs on Uri’s door. No one answers. He goes in.
Two guys stand at the desk with Uri. Seymour is enraged and
doesn’t pay any attention to them at first.
URI
Seymour, buddy... what’s good my
man?
SEYMOUR
Uri, I’m billing by the hour, so I
don’t give a fuck if I’m here
longer -- but what the fuck are
those fucking guys doing tossing my
shit down? I’m going to have to
bill you to replace all that gear.
URI
They fucked with your shit?
Seymour doesn’t respond. He takes in that the other two guys
in the trailer are Leah’s brothers, Yosef and Shlomo...
Uri is oblivious to the tension...81.
81.
URI (CONT'D)
Seymour buddy... you’ve got my
permission to tell them to fuck
right off. If a single guy gets in
your way, he’s off the job. Plain
and simple. Do you think I give a
fuck about those guys? They’re
dispensable.
SEYMOUR
Sure.
YOSEF
...What is he doing here?
URI
Huh? Seymour? He’s helping us out.
Why? You know him?
YOSEF
This rat bastard! Get him off our
property. He has no right stepping
foot on our land.
SEYMOUR
Fuck this shit.
Seymour leaves the trailer.
181 181
INT. TRAILER - CONTINUOUS
Seymour enters. URI, thirties, is built similarly to Seymour.
He wears a gold chain and baggy clothes.
URI
Luceinski, what’s good bro? Haven’t
seen you in a minute.
SEYMOUR
Hey Uri.
URI
Listen, I’m sorry to hear about
your Pop. My Dad says he’ll pull
through. You holding up alright?
Seymour nods.
URI (CONT'D)
Stay strong brother. Shit man, if
that was my Dad... I’d fucking go
on a killing rampage -- know what
I’m saying?82.
82.
SEYMOUR
Yeah.
URI
They know who did it?
SEYMOUR
No.
URI
I digress. You find the joint
alright bro?
SEYMOUR
Yeah.
URI
The guys are going to be hyped to
have you here. They’re dying
without internet man. You’re going
to be their own personal Jesus H.
Kristofferson.
SEYMOUR
Yeah, I’m not even getting cell
service up here.
URI
Yeah it’s right fucked. You’re a
Godsend bro. I was hyped when my
Dad told me you were coming up.
I’ll give you the tour.
Uri chugs the rest of his energy drink and tosses the can. He
opens a mini fridge and takes another.
URI (CONT'D)
You want?
SEYMOUR
Sure.
182 182
EXT. TRAILER - CONTINUOUS
Seymour and Uri cheers their energy drinks and each take a
good sip.
URI
Man, when’s the last time I’ve seen
you? High school bro?
SEYMOUR
Maybe at synagogue or something.83.
83.
URI
Amen. Yeah. Dope. You going to stay
up at the Knights Inn with the
boys? We’ve got a corporate rate
going, I can get you a room.
SEYMOUR
Nah, I need to go back and see my
Dad.
URI
You’re driving in and out every
day? That’s a long ride man. How
many days you think this’ll take?
SEYMOUR
Few. Three or four. Depending on
what’s going on.
URI
Fuckin eh.
Seymour nods. They walk to a generator...
URI (CONT'D)
We’re pulling off of these puppies
right now. This is... man what’s
your name again?
The GENERATOR OP nods at them.
URI (CONT'D)
Some of these guys don’t even know
english bro.
SEYMOUR
I’m pulling off of these too?
URI
Yeah.
Seymour wearily nods.
183 183
INT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - CONTINUOUS
The construction site looks disastrous. There’s a massive pit
in the ground... it’s probably a hundred feet deep. The
foundation hasn’t been poured but the skeleton of the
building has already gone up in some places. There are no
walls, it is just concrete and rebar. At some points the
frame is close to ten stories high.84.
84.
Seymour and Uri watch two or three men smokes cigarettes and
stare at a concrete truck.
URI
You good to wire this thing up?
SEYMOUR
I’ll do what I can today. But I’ll
have to bring in a lot of gear from
the city.
URI
Alright man.
184 184
EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT
Seymour drives home.
185 185
EXT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT
Seymour parks at the hospital. Igor’s wheelchair is still
where they left it. Seymour takes it and brings it back into
the hospital.
186 186
INT. HOSPITAL - ARNOLD’S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Seymour sits next to Arnold.
Arnold’s heart rate sounds steady on the machine.
Igor sits on the other side of the room.
NURSE
What we’re seeing is that the
explosion gave him a heart attack
which has put him in the coma. He’s
in stable condition for now.
Seymour nods.
The nurse smiles softly at Seymour before leaving the room.
187 187
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO - NIGHT
Seymour drives Igor back to the retirement community.
IGOR
I’ll make my own way to the
hospital tomorrow.85.
85.
SEYMOUR
I can take you Igor, it’s fine.
Igor slams the door on his way out.
188 188
INT. RETIREMENT BUILDING - DAY
Igor sits in the lobby... the elevator door opens... but it
isn’t Arnold. It’s one of the caretakers.
189 189
EXT. RETIREMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
Igor walks alone to the fast food restaurant...
190 190
INT. ELECTRONICS STORE - LOADING DOCK - SIMULTANEOUS
Seymour moves gear from the loading dock into his cargo
truck.
191 191
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - CONTINUOUS
Igor sits alone at his and Arnold’s usual table...
A newspaper sits on the table unopened.
192 192
EXT. JCC - DAY
Igor waits at the bus stop.
193 193
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
Seymour drives...
194 194
EXT. JOB SITE - DAY
Seymour uses a hand cart to haul his gear through the mud.
The other WORKERS watch him.
A few of them stare at a piece of rebar, one of them uses a
machine that causes sparks to burst in all directions.
195 195
EXT. JOB SITE - DAY
Seymour’s pants and boots are covered in mud. He climbs
higher up the building. If he were to fall, he would plummet
to his death.86.
86.
He lays cable across the beams.
FAZIL comes up to him.
FAZIL
Hey boss. I’m Fazil. That’s Louie
and Ahmed.
SEYMOUR
Seymour.
FAZIL
Want a smoke?
SEYMOUR
No. I’m good.
FAZIL
I got to tell you boss, I want to
get off to a good start with you
but it’s not good to have these
wires here.
SEYMOUR
Where else are they going to go?
FAZIL
Find another way to do it boss.
It’s not good to have the wires. My
guy catches his foot -- it’s a long
way down.
They stand awkwardly. Seymour sizes him up. Fazil smiles and
pats Seymour on the back.
FAZIL (CONT'D)
Thanks boss. Appreciate your
cooperation.
Seymour continues to lay the cable down. The other guys don’t
look pleased.
196 196
INT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT
Seymour and Igor sit in the hospital room. Arnold remains in
a coma.
Igor dozes off in his chair. Seymour gets up.
SEYMOUR
Come on.87.
87.
IGOR
I’m good.
SEYMOUR
I’ll drive you home, come on.
Igor ignores him
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
Get up come on.
Igor gets up. Seymour helps him onto his feet.
197 197
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO - NIGHT
Seymour and Igor drive in silence.
198 198
EXT. JOB SITE - DAY
Seymour arrives at the site.
All of the wiring he’d rigged up so far has been ripped out
and tossed off the building.
Seymour looks around at Fazil and the other workers. They all
look aloof and go about their work as usual.
199 199
EXT. JOB SITE - DAY
Seymour wheels his hand cart towards his busted gear.
All of the Workers stare at Seymour. Fazil, shakes his head
and makes his way over to him.
Seymour parks the hand cart and takes off his work gloves.
FAZIL
Boss, listen, what a mess here.
What could have happened? I don’t
know... but surely you understand.
SEYMOUR
Fuck you.
Seymour clocks Fazil in the face.
Seymour puts up a great fight and kicks Fazil’s ass.
The rest of the guys come over. They watch the fight at
first...88.
88.
But when it becomes apparent that Seymour is winning they
break it up.
200 200
INT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT
Seymour sleeps in Arnold’s room.
Igor stares blankly.
Arnold starts to wake up. He looks confused.
Igor nudges Seymour awake.
Seymour sees Arnold.
201 201
EXT. JOB SITE - DAY
Seymour goes back to work.
Nobody bothers him.
URI
Hey man.
SEYMOUR
Yeah?
URI
We sorted things out with Moshe.
SEYMOUR
Alright.
202 202
INT. HOSPITAL - DAY
Igor tells Arnold a joke...
Arnold doesn’t laugh.
IGOR
Arnold?
He doesn’t respond.
IGOR (CONT'D)
Arnold? Man. Hey.
Igor starts pressing the button. He goes into the hall.
IGOR (CONT'D)
Hey get over here.89.
89.
Arnold has passed away.
203 203
EXT. JOB SITE - DAY
Seymour works. He puts all the wires back up.
Hal drives up to tell him. He comes over to the job site.
HAL
Seymour.
Seymour yells back down --
SEYMOUR
What?
HAL
Come down.
SEYMOUR
What?
HAL
I got to talk to you about
something.
SEYMOUR
About what?
HAL
Just come down and we’ll talk.
SEYMOUR
What is it?
HAL
I don’t think I should tell you
there.
SEYMOUR
Why? Tell me?
HAL
Your Dad didn’t make it.
SEYMOUR
What?
HAL
He passed away Seymour.
Seymour climbs down the building.90.
90.
HAL (CONT'D)
He passed away Seymour.
Seymour goes to the cargo van and drives off.
204 204
EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY
Seymour speeds down the road.
205 205
EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY
Seymour parks on the curb and rushes into the hospital --
206 206
INT. HOSPITAL - ARNOLD'S ROOM - DAY
Arnold has passed away.
Seymour puts his hand on his shoulder. He looks at him for a
long time.
Igor is in the hallway. He waits for him.
Seymour quickly wipes tears off his face.
Igor eventually enters. Seymour looks at him and then looks
away.
207 207
EXT. FUNERAL - DAY
Seymour and Igor stand next to one another at the funeral.
Boris, Hal, Stuart, Gale --
Seymour is given a shovel. He puts a few large scoops of dirt
into the grave.
He gives Igor the shovel.
Igor puts so many scoops of dirt in. He starts to cry. Hal
and Stuart eventually go up to him and take him away.
208 208
INT. ARNOLD'S APARTMENT - DAY
Seymour and Igor sit in Arnold’s apartment.
They are sitting shiva.
Seymour taps the end of the couch. He is impatient.91.
91.
He leaves.
209 209
INT. JCC - SYNAGOGUE - DAY
Seymour sits in a bench.
Igor is one ahead of him.
A few of the guys are there.
210 210
INT. ARNOLD'S APARTMENT - DAY
The police have no clues or leads or anything
211 211
INT. JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER - DAY
Igor calls Leah.
LEAH
Hello?
IGOR
Is this Leah?
LEAH
Yes. Maybe I ask whose calling?
IGOR
This is Igor. Friend of Seymour and
Arnold.
LEAH
Oh. Hi Igor.
IGOR
I’m calling to tell you that Arnold
has passed away.
LEAH
I’m so sorry to hear that.
IGOR
Seymour could use a friend.
LEAH
I see.
IGOR
If you could give him a call, it
would mean a lot.92.
92.
LEAH
Thank you for letting me know.
IGOR
Call him please.
Igor hangs up.
212 212
INT. SEYMOUR'S CARGO - DAY
Seymour answers.
SEYMOUR
Ya?
LEAH
...Seymour?
SEYMOUR
Ya. Whose this?
LEAH
It’s Leah.
Seymour doesn’t answer. He looks dumbfounded.
LEAH (CONT'D)
I’m sorry to hear about your
father, Seymour.
He still doesn’t answer. He looks angry.
LEAH (CONT'D)
I’m sorry that I’m calling.
SEYMOUR
Yah.
LEAH
Are you okay?
SEYMOUR
What kind of question is that?
LEAH
I’m sorry.
SEYMOUR
What am I supposed to say to that?
Huh? Yeah, I’m good? What the fuck
am I supposed to say?93.
93.
LEAH
Seymour I’m sorry.
SEYMOUR
Ya. Go fuck yourself.
He hangs up.
She calls back. He hangs up.
He starts hitting the steering wheel. She calls again.
He picks up --
SEYMOUR (CONT'D)
FUCK OFF. FUCK THE FUCK OFF. YOU
FUCKING CUNT.
He hangs up again. He clenches his fist and punches the rear
view mirror off the dashboard.
The phone rings again. Seymour picks up -- he doesn’t say
anything.
LEAH
I’m sorry Seymour.
He doesn’t say anything.
LEAH (CONT'D)
I’m sorry that I disappeared. I’m
sorry that I never called you. I’m
sorry that your Dad is gone. But if
you want to talk -- I’m here right
now.
SEYMOUR
Ok.
They are quiet on the phone.
LEAH
Ok.
SEYMOUR
I’ve been working pretty steadily
these past few years.
LEAH
Oh?94.
94.
SEYMOUR
I have my own business. I fix a lot
of electrical problems and set up
internet connections for people.
Commercial and personal. All kinds.
LEAH
That sounds like good work.
SEYMOUR
Thank you.
LEAH
It sounds like you get to meet a
lot of people.
SEYMOUR
Yes.
LEAH
That’s good Seymour. I’m sure your
father was very proud of you.
This makes Seymour cry.
LEAH (CONT'D)
It’s ok.
They wait on the phone.
SEYMOUR
Can I see her one day?
LEAH
...Ok.
213 213
EXT. LEAH'S APARTMENT - DAY
The cargo van pulls up to Leah’s apartment.
214 214
INT. LEAH’S APARTMENT - DAY
Seymour gets to see Leah. He meets -- ALANA.
Leah is quite thin and her hair is cut short. She is dressed
in jeans and a flannel shirt.
Alana is eight, eleven, she smiles and seems quiet, like
Leah.
ALANA
Hullo.95.
95.
SEYMOUR
Hi.
LEAH
Do you remember Seymour?
Alana shakes her head.
SEYMOUR
We met when you were just a baby.
Alana looks shy. She hides behind Leah’s leg.
LEAH
Seymour was a big helper. He helped
me out a lot when I was younger.
Leah smiles at Seymour.
They sit on the couches.
215 215
EXT. JOB SITE - DAY
Seymour finishes the job up north.
216 216
INT. ARNOLD'S APARTMENT - DAY
Seymour cleans out Arnold's appointment and loads everything
into the cargo van.
217 217
EXT. LANDFILL - DAY
Seymour drives to the landfill. He tosses all of Arnold’s
stuff into the dump.
But there is a cardboard box... with a computer in it...
218 218
INT. HALLWAY - IGOR’S APARTMENT - DAY
Seymour knocks on the door.
He holds a cardboard box. It has a computer in it.
Igor looks weary.
219 219
INT. IGOR’S APARTMENT - DAY
Seymour plugs the computer in.96.
96.
Igor stares at it.
IGOR
What do I do with this thing?
SEYMOUR
You just go here and type in things
you’re interested in.
IGOR
Like shiksas?
SEYMOUR
Yup. Whatever. Boats, basketball.
Whatever.
IGOR
Huh.
The computer looks boring and cold.
IGOR (CONT'D)
I didn’t amount to much in my life
Seymour. You know that. But --
getting to hang around with you
guys -- that meant something.
SEYMOUR
Thanks Igor. You also.
IGOR
He was proud of you, Seymour.
SEYMOUR
That’s alright.
220 220
INT. JCC - DAY
Seymour fixes the breaker.
221 221
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - KITCHEN - FLASHBACK
VLAD, sixteen, wears an apron and washes dishes. He is
smaller and more nervous looking than his co-workers --
BRIAN, LIAM and JIMMY, who are also all sixteen.
Brian seems like the leader of the group, Liam is the muscle,
he is tallest and quiet, Jimmy is funniest and fattest and
Vlad is the runt of the litter.97.
97.
They perform various restaurant related tasks. They rotate
between cooking, refilling sauces, working the till and the
drive-thru.
JIMMY
Yo, Vlad, let’s smoke crack.
VLAD
Dude...
JIMMY
Crack is fuckin sick man!
BRIAN
I’m going to smoke crack with my
girlfriend and then get her
pregnant.
LIAM
Ace.
KEVIN, forties, walks through the kitchen. He is the manager.
KEVIN
Vlad, get those coupons going.
Couriers coming first thing
tomorrow.
VLAD
Yo, what?
Kevin walks into the back office and kicks the door shut.
VLAD (CONT'D)
Fuck man.
BRIAN
Kevin loves crack. He smokes it
with his dick.
Vlad puts a load of dishes through the machine and goes to
Kevin’s office. He knocks on the door --
KEVIN
WHAT?
Vlad opens the door. The office doubles as a supply closet.
Vlad is nervous in Kevin’s presence.
KEVIN (CONT'D)
On the table.
VLAD
Can I get some envelopes too?98.
98.
KEVIN
They’re right in front of your
face.
VLAD
Oh. Got them. Thanks.
Vlad takes the stack of coupons and envelopes and shuts the
door.
222 222
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - NIGHT
(MOS) -- Vlad, Liam, Brian and Jimmy close the shop for the
evening.
They smoke cigarettes as they mop, count the till and refill
the sauces -- etc...
Liam divides a bottle of vodka into four soda cups that are
all in a cardboard divider. He randomly mixes soda flavors
into each cup and brings one to Vlad, Jimmy and Brian. They
all chug their drinks.
223 223
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - LATER
(MOS) -- Jimmy crushes up some pills from an orange
prescription bottle. He sets up a line for everyone. They
each snort one.
Vlad throws up into the mop bucket and then drinks more soda.
224 224
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - LATER
(MOS) -- Everyone is wasted. Jimmy has his head under the
soft serve machine. Brian pours it on his head.
Liam has a bag of Bang Snaps (small novelty fireworks). He
tosses one at Vlad, who jumps at the small explosion it
creates. Liam tosses a few more at him.
They unwind the Bang Snaps and create a pile of silver
fulminate (the explosive inside of the firework).
Liam carefully takes a pile of the silver fulminate and folds
it into a napkin, creating a much larger Bang Snap. He tosses
it onto the ground. The explosive is much bigger.
Jimmy comes out of the supply closet with some bottles of
neon liquids and random oils. He pours them onto the ground.
Liam tosses another one of the larger Bang Snaps into it. The
explosion is even bigger than the last.99.
99.
The guys all laugh quite hard when they see the explosion.
Vlad brings the envelopes that Kevin had him prepare for the
coupons...
They carefully pour the silver fulminate into one of
envelopes. They use the different goo’s to seal them shut.
Liam opens the envelopes and -- BAM -- the explosion is
substantial. They all laugh.
They do it again, this time with even more silver fulminate.
They laugh hysterically and get ready to repeat the process.
This time with more soap and more silver fulminate.
225 225
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - LATER
(MOS) -- Jimmy throws up on himself. Liam’s eyebrows are
burnt off.
The fire alarm is going off. Vlad stands on a stack of milk
crates and waves the smoke away form the alarm.
Brian is passed out on the ground.
A box of produce it blackened from an explosion. There is
lettuce, goo, envelopes and coupons all over the kitchen.
226 226
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DAWN
The guys are passed out on milk crates and bags of hamburger
buns. There is a frantic knocking coming from the front door.
BRIAN
What the fuck?
Brian wakes up and steps over the other guys.
227 227
EXT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DAY
JACKSON, thirteen, shivers and repeatedly bangs against the
front door. He wears a courier bag. Brian unlocks the door.
BRIAN
Yo man.
COURIER
I’m here for the package.100.
100.
BRIAN
What package?
COURIER
I dunno. It was supposed to be in
the mail box. Kevin sent me.
BRIAN
Fuck eh? Hold on.
228 228
INT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - CONTINUOUS
Brian kicks Vlad, Jimmy and Liam awake.
BRIAN
Yo guys, it’s morning. Some kid is
here looking for a package in the
mail box.
VLAD
Oh, fuck!
Vlad rushes and collects all the coupons and envelopes. They
are all stained in goo.
229 229
EXT. FAST FOOD RESTAURANT - DAY
Jackson walks from the fast food restaurant, past the JCC and
to Arnold and Igor’s retirement community building.
They are all very close to one another.
230 230
INT. RETIREMENT COMMUNITY - LOBBY - DAY
Igor sits in the lobby and watches Jackson sort the envelopes
into the mail grid. Jackson finishes the task and leaves.
The elevator doors open. Arnold comes out.
Igor follows him to the mail grid. Arnold takes his mail.
IGOR
I was talking to an old buddy of
mine last night. Sad story, feeling
pretty blue about it.
ARNOLD
Oh ya, which guy?101.
101.
231 231
EXT. RETIREMENT COMMUNITY - DAY
Igor and Arnold walk past the JCC, towards the fast food
restaurant.
IGOR
We go way back. You wouldn’t know
him.
ARNOLD
Sure I don’t. Alright, what about
him?
IGOR
He’s a good Jewish kid. Typical
story, had his bris in Warsaw and
his Bar Mitzvah in Montreal?
ARNOLD
What kid had his bris in Warsaw and
lived to have a Bar Mitzvah in
Montreal?
IGOR
A lot of guys. Listen. He was a
good man, married Jewish. His wife
was a little wide and crabby, but
she was a decent cook and a good
homemaker and she put up with his
income so what more could he want?
ARNOLD
Sure.
IGOR
Anyways he’s got a secret, the guy
loves treif -- pork, bacon, shrimp
all of that shit. Can’t keep his
hands off the stuff. For some guys
its shiksas but for this guy it was
treif. And I’m not talking about
sneaking a piece of bacon here and
there, this guy ate it until his
blood ran thick.
ARNOLD
What’d you say his name was?
IGOR
Nothing -- so eventually his wife,
God bless her, she wants a baby so
badly but it isn’t happening.
(MORE)
(MORE)102.
102.
IGOR (CONT'D)
IGOR (CONT'D)
They’ve been trying for years and
the Yente says start by blowing the
bastard but don’t let him finish --
that’ll turn his oatmeal into jet
fuel. So ok -- that night for the
first time since their wedding
night she gets down on her knees
and gets ready but she goes -- HEY
WHAT GIVES SHLOMO! And she looks at
his prick and guess what? His damn
foreskin had grown back, cased over
his entire pecker! The damn
bastard. She knew right then and
there he’d been going out and
gorging on so much treif his
foreskin grew back and covered his
pecker completely. She was so
pissed at him. So what does she do?
She blew him anyway -- and then
when he busted a nut -- his damn
pecker exploded and he bit the dust
right then and there!
Arnold laughs so hard he almost falls over. He has to stop
and lean on a mail box.























































THE TELLER OF OAKRIDGE CRESCENT
JOSH BARSKY
DRAFT 8.1
APRIL 12, 20211 1
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - LOBBY - DAY
DEBBI, early forties, small in stature, counts a stack of
bills onto the counter.
DEBBI
-- Three hundred ten, twenty,
thirty, forty -- three hundred and
fifty.
She stuffs the bills into an envelope and hands them to her
CUSTOMER.
CUSTOMER
Thanks.
DEBBI
Have a great weekend.
CUSTOMER
You too.
Debbi smiles. The Customer leaves.
2 2
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - STAFF ROOM - DAY
Debbi paces by the window and discreetly talks to CHAIM on
her cell phone.
3 3
EXT. GAS STATION - SIMULTANEOUS
Chaim is a few years younger than Debbi. He is unshaven,
wears track pants and a Calgary Flames hat.
He angrily swipes his bank card through a gas terminal.
CHAIM
It keeps saying card error. These
machines are bullshit.
DEBBI
Just go in and pay. Don’t you have
cash?
CHAIM
Not really... can you just swing by
quickly? I’m kind of stranded here.
DEBBI
Chaim, no -- I’ve got a meeting in
two minutes. I can’t just drop
everything --2.
2.
CHAIM
-- Ok, Deb, listen -- I’m gonna
tell you something and you’re gonna
be mad at first but I’m going to
get it figured out ok?
DEBBI
I really don’t have time for this
right now Chaim.
CHAIM
Ok well Deb... Yuri’s going to
evict Mom.
DEBBI
What? No he isn’t. Why would he do
that?
Chaim leans his head against the gas terminal.
DEBBI
Why would he do that Chaim?
CHAIM
I’ll fix it Debbi, don’t worry
okay? Just -- I can get the money
back but I need more time.
DEBBI
Get what money back?
CHAIM
Deb...
DEBBI
-- The rent money? You lost the
rent money? What about my half?
CHAIM
I just need one win Debbi and
that’ll be --
DEBBI
You lost my half too? Are you an
idiot?
CHAIM
Debbi, I promise I’ll make it
right. But for right now -- do you
think you could just come by and
help me out?
Debbi looks out the staff room window -- LEANNA, forties,
wealthy, stands in the lobby.3.
3.
DEBBI
God damnit -- I have to go. You
stay right there and do not even
think about moving.
Debbi snaps her phone shut and does her best to regain her
composure.
4 4
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi enters the lobby and greets Leanna.
DEBBI
Leanna!
Leanna looks devastated, like she’s been crying for weeks.
LEANNA
Oh my God Debbi! Its been forever,
how are you?
DEBBI
So good to see you!
5 5
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
Debbi and Leanna sit at a board room table. There is a file
folder between them.
DEBBI
I’m so sorry to hear about your
husband, Leanna.
LEANNA
Thank you Debbi. Honestly, half the
time I feel like it isn’t even
real. But... I’m ok.
Leanna puts her hand on the file folder.
LEANNA
...I’d love to just get this dealt
with and out of the way.
DEBBI
Of course. Ok. Well... it’s a
pretty big investment so... you
know -- the world is yours!
LEANNA
I mean -- ya -- so -- can I just be
honest for a sec? Is that okay?4.
4.
DEBBI
Of course.
LEANNA
So -- we already have all of these
other investments that are like...
actually big -- he pretty much had
one of these stashed away in every
bank in the city -- just collecting
dust. But I mean, ya -- I can’t
deal with it all, clearly.
Debbi peaks at her cell phone.
Leanna starts to look upset. She stares blankly at the
window.
DEBBI
Well hey, so depending on what you
want to do... maybe we just take
out a line of credit and then as it
matures we --
LEANNA
-- Right, so... sorry to interrupt
but -- the last thing I think I
need right now is another line of
credit... so... is it okay to just
let it sit there for now?
DEBBI
Well, sure, absolutely. We can call
it a rainy day fund.
LEANNA
Sure. Ya. Sorry, it’s just...
everything is a lot right now.
DEBBI
Leanna, I totally understand. I’m
sorry, really. Ok, so -- let’s just
let it simmer and -- yeah!
LEANNA
Thank you, Debbi.
DEBBI
My pleasure. And just before we go,
would you mind just signing off for
me?
LEANNA
Of course.5.
5.
Debbi opens the folder and turns the paperwork towards
Leanna. Leanna signs the bottom of the page.
DEBBI
Great.
And that’s it?
LEANNA
DEBBI
Yup!
LEANNA
Thanks so much I really appreciate
it Debbi. It was good to see you.
DEBBI
You too Leanna.
As soon as Leanna leaves the office Debbi stuffs the files
into her bag and rushes off.
6 6
EXT. GAS STATION - DAY
Debbi’s minivan speeds into the parking lot. She slams the
door on her way out.
Chaim leans his head against the gas terminal.
DEBBI
-- Do not say a word. I can’t even
look at you right now.
Debbi marches past him.
7 7
INT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS
Debbi waits for the ATTENDANT to ring up Chaim’s gas bill.
ATTENDANT
Points card?
Debbi gives it to the Attendant. He scans it.
ATTENDANT
You’ve got enough points to cover
it if you’d like?
DEBBI
No.
Debbi pays for the gas and takes the receipt.6.
6.
8 8
EXT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS
Debbi zips up her purse on her way out of the booth. She goes
up to Chaim and hits him with it repeatedly.
DEBBI
How did you get to be so stupid,
you stupid idiot!
CHAIM
Deb, please --
Chaim tries to hold her arms down. Debbi pushes him away.
DEBBI
Does Arianna know?
CHAIM
No.
DEBBI
Do you think she deserves to end up
with some stupid schmuck who
gambles away all his Mom’s rent
money? You idiot.
CHAIM
No.
DEBBI
And now what? I have to repay my
half and yours?
CHAIM
I promise I’ll get it back to you.
DEBBI
How much do we owe?
Chaim looks at the ground.
DEBBI
Tell me asshole!
CHAIM
Nineteen thousand dollars.
DEBBI
NINETEEN THOUSAND DOLLARS? YOU
IDIOT! I HATE YOU!
She starts hitting him with her purse again.7.
7.
CHAIM
Debbi -- it’s going to be okay,
alright? I promise.
DEBBI
Who else knows?
CHAIM
Just you.
DEBBI
Does Mom know?
CHAIM
No.
DEBBI
Do not say a word to anyone. And if
you even look at me at dinner
tonight I will kill you.
Debbi storms back to her minivan and speeds off.
9 9
EXT. OAKRIDGE CRESCENT - DAY
Debbi drives though the neighborhood. The homes are small and
modest. The streets are quiet.
10 10
EXT. OAKRIDGE CRESCENT - GERSHWIN HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
Debbi arrives at a shadowy bungalow at the end of the block.
11 11
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
MOLLY, nine, greets Debbi at the front door.
Molly smiles brightly. Her outfit is loud and colorful.
MOLLY
HI MOM!
DEBBI
Hi Mol! Are you guys ready to go?
MOLLY
DAAAAAADDD, ARE YOU READY?
ZEV, seven, is dressed in all black and wears a tight pony
tail. She bolts from one end of the house to the other.8.
8.
DEBBI
Zev, we’re leaving soon, ok?
Zev doesn’t stop to answer.
12 12
INT. GERSWHIN HOUSE - JEFF AND DEBBI'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Debbi changes out of her work clothes. JEFF, forties, serious
looking, comes out of the shower.
JEFF
How was the day?
DEBBI
Hi.
They kiss.
Jeff looks suspicious of her.
JEFF
What’s wrong?
DEBBI
My brother is an idiot.
JEFF
What happened?
DEBBI
Nothing.
JEFF
Right.
Debbi puts on a different top.
JEFF
Is it a money thing?
DEBBI
Ya. But can we just get dressed
please? We have to go.
13 13
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Two shabbat candles glow in the window of an old brick
apartment building...9.
9.
14 14
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Debbi and ARIANNA clear dishes off the table.
Arianna is Chaim’s girlfriend. She is in her late twenties,
wears hoop earrings and a wool cardigan overtop of her tank
top.
ARIANNA
A bunch of us at work are looking
at getting one of those beach
resort packages and if we get a
bunch of us together then it’s a
really good deal.
DEBBI
Oh?
ARIANNA
Would you want to come, maybe? It’s
like a no boys allowed type thing
so --
Chaim and Jeff laugh and drink sodas on the couch in the
living room. Hockey blares from the television.
Debbi smiles sarcastically.
ARIANNA
Because Debbi, really -- I mean --
if anyone deserves a vacation it’s
you.
DEBBI
Sure. Maybe in about ten years or
so? Would that work for everyone?
ARIANNA
Oh stop it --
Arianna puts her hand by the radiator.
ARIANNA
Ok but seriously -- speaking of
beach vacations -- am I crazy or is
it freezing in here? Like? Chaim,
what’s wrong with the heater?
CHAIM
Yuri’s going to fix it!
DEBBI
Oh is he Chaim? Really?10.
10.
Debbi shoots Chaim a hateful look and takes a stack of plates
into the kitchen --
15 15
OMITTED
16 16
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
EMMIE, seventies, Debbi and Chaim’s Mom, is elbow deep in
dishes.
Molly hovers around her.
DEBBI
Mom, what’s going on with the heat?
EMMIE
I’m not fussing with it -- I have
blankets, Chaim talked to Yuri, so
Yuri will fix it. Don’t get so
worked up Debbi.
DEBBI
Well what’d Yuri say?
EMMIE
He said -- Shabbat Shalom Mrs.
Schwartz! What do you think he
said?
DEBBI
Sure Mom. Molly, where’s your
sister?
MOLLY
...I dunno?
17 17
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - FRONT HALLWAY - SIMULTANEOUS
Zev sneaks down the hall towards the front door. She makes
sure the coast is clear before climbing into a pile of
jackets.
She finds Debbi’s purse, pries it open and takes a quarter.
DEBBI
Zev?
Zev quickly hides the quarter in her pocket and looks at
Debbi.11.
11.
DEBBI
What are you sneaking around for?
ZEV
Nothing.
Zev runs past her and goes back to the living room.
18 18
OMITTED
19 19
INT. MINIVAN - MOVING - CONTINUOUS
Jeff drives, Debbi sits in the passenger seat, Molly and Zev
sit behind them.
Zev discreetly admires her new quarter.
The hockey game plays on the radio.
DEBBI
We have enough points for a fill
up.
JEFF
Oh yeah? Maybe tomorrow we go?
DEBBI
No no, let’s save them.
JEFF
For what?
MOLLY
Mom, can we put my CD on?
JEFF
Not quite Molly.
MOLLY
Dad, please?
Debbi pushes play on the CD player.
JEFF
Ah, Deb!
Debbi smiles.
MOLLY
Put on song five!12.
12.
Debbi does so. She blasts the volume.
A bubbly pop song plays. Molly bobs her head along and lip
syncs.
Zev rolls her eyes.
20 20
OMITTED
21 21
OMITTED
22 22
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - ZEV’S ROOM - NIGHT
Molly and Zev wear their pajamas and sit on the floor.
There is a landline phone cord, some spools of colorful
plastic twine, some stickers and a bundle of glitter pens.
Zev holds a tupperware container. It’s full of coins and
bills.
Molly holds up some glitter pens.
MOLLY
How much are these?
ZEV
Fifty cents each or three dollars
for all.
Molly considers it. She inspects the plastic spools.
MOLLY
What about these?
ZEV
Two bucks each.
Molly counts her coins. Debbi enters.
DEBBI
Alright, cops are here! Break it up
break it up. Bed time, bed time.
Let’s go.
Zev dives into bed with the tupperware piggy bank and hides
under the covers. Molly runs back to her room.
DEBBI
Zev?13.
13.
Zev doesn’t say anything. Her toe pokes out from the blanket.
Debbi grabs it.
ZEV
AH!
DEBBI
Night Zevy.
ZEV
I’m sleeping!
Debbi shuts off the light.
23 23
OMITTED
24 24
INT. GERSWHIN HOUSE - JEFF AND DEBBI’S BEDROOM - NIGHT
Jeff watches the hockey game on TV. Debbi brushes her teeth.
JEFF
I was thinking maybe we bring some
of those heaters over to your Mom’s
tomorrow when we drop the kids off?
DEBBI
Didn’t we toss those?
JEFF
They’re in the basement.
DEBBI
Are you sure? I think we tossed
them.
JEFF
They’re there.
DEBBI
That’s very sweet. Thank you Jeff.
JEFF
Uh huh.
She kisses him on the cheek on her way to bed.
JEFF
What’s going on with Chaim?14.
14.
DEBBI
Nothing. His debit card wasn’t
working. I had to pay his gas bill.
JEFF
What do you mean his debit card
wasn’t working? We can’t go through
this again Debbi. We can’t just
bail him out of ruin every time he
reaches for his wallet --
DEBBI
Jeff -- I know. We won’t. It’s
fine.
JEFF
I’m sorry Deb, I know how hard it
is for you not to be able to help
him out but --
Jeff’s attention becomes transfixed by the hockey game.
JEFF
SHOOT! SHOOT!
The Flames score.
JEFF
YES!
Debbi rolls her eyes.
25 25
INT. GERSWHIN HOUSE - JEFF AND DEBBI’S BEDROOM - LATER
Debbi lies awake and stares at the ceiling.
26 26
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
Debbi nibbles on some leftovers from the fridge. She washes a
few dishes.
She sits at the table. She goes to her purse and takes her
cell phone. She calls Chaim. He doesn’t answer. She leaves a
voicemail --
DEBBI
Chaim, I wish we had the money to
just deal with this for you -- but
we don’t -- and -- I don’t know
what to do anymore.
(MORE)
(MORE)15.
15.
DEBBI (CONT'D)
DEBBI (CONT'D)
I want to be there for you and I
want to help you and I know you’re
struggling with all of this but --
I can’t do this to Jeff again --
and -- I don’t know. I’m sorry.
Maybe Mom can move into our place
if that’s what this is. I don’t
know. We’ll talk tomorrow.
27 27
INT. EMMIE’S APARTMENT BUILDING - ELEVATOR - DAY
Debbie and Jeff each carry a heater.
Zev and Molly spin in circles and dizzy themselves while
staring at their distorted reflections in the ceiling.
28 28
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY
Jeff sets the heaters up. Zev and Molly braid bracelets from
the plastic twine from Zev’s store. Debbi follows Emmie
across the room.
DEBBI
When did he say he could fix it?
EMMIE
Yuri is just a boy and his mother
is very sick. Chaim said he’ll deal
with it -- so, he’ll deal with it.
We don’t need to make a fuss about
every detail Debbi.
Jeff plugs in the heaters.
JEFF
Alright, all good.
Emmie opens the oven and takes out a sheet of cookies. Molly
runs up to watch.
DEBBI
Mom, if Chaim isn’t paying the
bills on time then I need to know --
EMMIE
-- Enough, Debbi. Go on, have your
day. Let’s go.
Emmie shoo’s Debbi and Jeff out of the house.16.
16.
JEFF
Thanks Bubs, we’ll be back in a
couple hours. Be good girls.
Everyone says goodbye.
Debbi looks frustrated and overwhelmed.
29 29
INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
Jeff slowly pushes a shopping cart behind Debbi. He stops to
look at some noodles.
JEFF
Four for five bucks.
DEBBI
Yeah but these are three for three.
She shows him another brand of noodles.
JEFF
Good.
Jeff smiles. Debbi throws the boxes into the cart.
30 30
EXT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
Debbi pushes their shopping cart through the parking lot.
They load their groceries into the trunk of the minivan.
JEFF
I can talk to Yuri if you want and
check in on the heat.
DEBBI
It’s okay Jeff, I don’t want you to
have to deal with it.
JEFF
It’s fine. I don’t mind.
Debbi looks at him sarcastically.
The minivan has leaked a small pool of oil onto the road.
JEFF
We really have to take this thing
in.
DEBBI
It’s just a bit of oil...17.
17.
JEFF
How about we scrap this thing and
get something new. I’ll buy you a
new truck, how about that?
DEBBI
Sure Jeff, buy me a new truck.
JEFF
Deal.
They load the groceries for a few moments.
JEFF
What’s going on with Chaim?
DEBBI
I don’t want you to worry about it.
JEFF
Listen, Deb -- I can take those
evening shifts -- there’s a decent
pay raise -- it’d be less time at
home but -- it’s my job to make
sure you guys have what you need,
right?
DEBBI
Jeff, no. The girls need their Dad
around.
JEFF
Ya. But I can earn more and I
should. Maybe it’d be best for us
to handle your Mom’s expenses and
let Chaim off the hook.
DEBBI
You’re earning enough already. Ok?
JEFF
Ya.
Jeff nods but doesn’t look entirely convinced. He looks
frustrated.
They finish loading the groceries in silence.
31 31
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY
Jeff lies underneath the minivan and tries to find the source
of the oil leak.18.
18.
Debbi crouches on the ground next to him. She listens to a
voicemail from Chaim on her cell phone.
CHAIM (V.O.)
Hey. Deb. Calling you back. I just
want you to know that I went to one
of those meetings today. For
gambling. The twelve step thing and
-- I promise I’m going to turn
things around... and... just don’t
worry about the money okay? I have
a plan -- so, yeah -- call me back
when you get this.
She closes the phone.
JEFF
Who’s that?
DEBBI
Nothing. Just some promotional
thing.
JEFF
Right. Did we win another cruise?
Jeff bangs on something beneath the van.
DEBBI
Yeah.
JEFF
Great.
32 32
OMITTED
33 33
EXT. STREET - DAY
Jeff wears a delivery driver uniform and pulls a cardboard
box off his delivery truck.
He rushes the box across the street to a townhouse. He scans
a barcode and rings the doorbell.
34 34
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - OFFICE - DAY
Debbi knocks on a door that’s labelled -- BRANCH MANAGER.
BILLY
Yup?19.
19.
Debbi opens the door -- BILLY, fifties, sits with his feet up
on the desk.
DEBBI
Hey Billy, you got a second?
BILLY
All good -- what can I do you for
Deb?
DEBBI
I just wanted to check in on our
employee rates if I could.
BILLY
Oh yeah? Big purchase coming up?
Billy types something into his computer.
DEBBI
Um ya, we’re thinking of buying a
new truck!
BILLY
A truck eh?
DEBBI
Yup. So we’re thinking of taking
out a line of credit...
BILLY
Well Deb I can tell you -- you’re
already pre-approved for a line of
credit. I can see it on your file
here. So that’s no problem.
DEBBI
Good. Okay.
BILLY
But we’ll have to get Jeff to sign
too -- since it’s a joint account.
Debbi nods... dubiously.
BILLY
But aside from that, all I’m seeing
is fields of green.
DEBBI
Great... I’ll see when he’s free.
BILLY
Great.20.
20.
DEBBI
Hey, is it possible for me to sign
for him? Might be easier that way.
BILLY
Nope.
DEBBI
Ok. Right. Thanks Billy.
35 35
EXT. DOMINION BANK - DAY
Debbi parks the minivan and enters a bank that is not the one
she works at.
36 36
INT. DOMINION BANK - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi stands at the counter. She puts on a big smile.
DEBBI
I’m wondering who I can talk to
about taking out a line of credit?
The Teller notices her name tag is from Canada National.
TELLER
Um... sure... just hold on two
seconds and I’ll grab someone for
you...
DEBBI
Thank you.
37 37
EXT. DOMINION BANK - DAY
Debbi exits the bank with a stack of papers. She tosses them
into the nearest garbage can and gets back into the minivan.
38 38
EXT. MONEY MART - DAY
Debbi parks the minivan and rushes into a Money Mart.
She walks out moments later with another stack of papers and
angrily tosses them into the nearest garbage can.
She calls Chaim --
CHAIM
Hey.21.
21.
DEBBI
I don’t know what to do.
CHAIM
With what?
DEBBI
The money Chaim!
CHAIM
Deb, it’s just twenty thousand. I
can get that.
DEBBI
You said it was nineteen.
CHAIM
Same thing.
DEBBI
It’s not the same thing, Chaim. And
I can’t get the money. I talked to
my bank, and I talked to another
bank and I talked to the stupid
money mart and their rates are
bullshit -- I don’t know what else
to do --
CHAIM
Deb...
DEBBI
-- So maybe Mom comes to live with
me and that’s that. Okay? Because I
can’t just get rid of all of our
savings and I can’t take another
mortgage on our house.
CHAIM
Debbi. Just calm down. I told you
I’ll figure it out.
DEBBI
Really Chaim?
CHAIM
Yes. I will.
DEBBI
Fine.
Debbi snaps her phone shut.22.
22.
39 39
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - DEBBI AND JEFF’S ROOM - NIGHT
Debbi lies awake and stares at the ceiling.
Jeff sleeps soundly next to her.
She hears some fidgeting coming from downstairs.
40 40
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Debbi quietly comes downstairs. She watches as Zev sneaks
through her bag.
DEBBI
Zev...
Zev is startled. She knocks over Debbi’s bag. Its contents
scatter across the ground.
Zev makes a fist in order to hide a twenty dollar bill.
Debbi grabs Zev’s wrist.
DEBBI
Drop it.
Zev tries to pull her arm away.
ZEV
Let me go!
Debbi squeezes Zev’s wrist.
DEBBI
ZEV.
ZEV
I didn’t do anything!
Zev drops the twenty dollar bill, pulls her arm away and
bolts upstairs.
The contents of Debbi’s bag -- credit cards, receipts, files,
pens, makeup -- are scattered across the floor.
Debbi slowly cleans everything up... but stops when she sees
Leanna’s file folder... she takes it to the kitchen table.
She reads it over... and looks closely at Leanna’s signature
at the bottom of the page...23.
23.
41 41
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY
Debbi comes downstairs. She looks exhausted. Molly and Jeff
cook breakfast together.
MOLLY
Morning Mom!
Debbi smiles. She kisses Molly on the head.
DEBBI
Morning. Where’s Zev?
JEFF
She took a banana and went back to
her room.
DEBBI
Right.
Debbi grabs a banana and goes to the front doorway. Jeff
follows her with the frying pan. Debbi puts on her shoes and
jacket.
DEBBI
I gotta get to work early.
JEFF
Pancake for the road?
DEBBI
I’m going to stop by my Mom’s after
work to check in on the heat.
JEFF
I could stop by on my break?
DEBBI
That’s fine. Thanks though Jeff.
JEFF
Ok. Girls, come say bye to your
Mom.
Molly comes over.
MOLLY
BYE MOMMY!
DEBBI
Bye Molly.
Debbi looks upstairs. Zev’s bedroom door is slightly ajar.24.
24.
DEBBI
Bye Zev!
Zev doesn’t answer.
Jeff passes a pancake to Debbi from the frying pan.
DEBBI
Thanks Jeff.
MOLLY
Mom, wait!
Molly runs to the kitchen and comes back with a bottle of
syrup. Molly pours syrup onto Debbi’s pancake.
DEBBI
Thanks Molly. Say bye to Zev for me
ok?
MOLLY
Ok.
42 42
EXT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - DAY
It’s early and there aren’t many cars in the parking lot.
Debbi parks the minivan and goes into the bank.
SERGIO, the security guard, smokes a cigarette and sips from
his thermos.
DEBBI
Morning Serg!
He nods at Debbi and holds the door open for her.
43 43
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - CONTINUOUS
Debbi is alone in the bank. Everything is dark except for one
flickering monitor.
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
Debbi logs into a computer and discreetly prints a few forms.
She fills them out and then -- carefully forges Leanna’s
signature at the bottom of the page.
She takes the forged documents and runs them through the
photocopier.25.
25.
44 44
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi selects a new bank card from a drawer under the till.
She swipes it through her computer and processes it.
Billy arrives.
Morning Deb.
BILLY
DEBBI
Hey Billy!
BILLY
Early bird special?
DEBBI
I was just getting a head start on
the day... I might need to rush off
a bit early to run an errand for my
Mom before I pick up the girls from
school if that’s alright.
BILLY
Fine by me.
45 45
OMITTED
46 46
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - BAR & GRILL - DAY
Debbi parks the minivan and goes into the Bar & Grill, which
is next door to Emmie’s apartment building.
47 47
INT. BAR & GRILL - CONTINUOUS
Ragged and disillusioned men are slumped along a row of
barstools, nursing bottles of beer.
Debbi enters. Some of the men look at her. She avoids all eye
contact and goes straight to an ATM at the back of the bar.
She puts the new bank card into the ATM.
She withdraws a large stack of bills, stuffs them into her
purse and leaves.26.
26.
48 48
EXT. BAR & GRILL - CONTINUOUS
Debbi walks from the Bar and Grill to Emmie’s apartment
building.
49 49
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - YURI’S OFFICE - DAY
YURI, forties, wears a back brace and moves slowly.
His office is a mess of papers and plumbing supplies.
Debbi sits across from him. She holds her purse in her lap.
DEBBI
Thanks for meeting me Yuri.
YURI
Of course.
DEBBI
I just wanted to come in personally
and say thank you for all that
you’ve done for our family. I had
no idea Chaim wasn’t paying you the
rent and I’m so so sorry. I will
never be able to thank you enough
for allowing my Mom to stay in her
home. Most people wouldn’t have
shown that kind of kindness.
YURI
That’s okay Deb. I wouldn’t have
done it for anyone else. But -- I
can’t keep doing it.
Debbi hands him the stack of bills that she withdrew from the
ATM.
Yuri looks it over.
DEBBI
That’s all I have right now but
I’ll come back this time next week.
Ok?
Yuri nods.
DEBBI
From now on, I’ll deal with all of
the payments. All communication
goes through me. No more Chaim.
Yuri looks hesitant and dubious.27.
27.
DEBBI
I can make this right Yuri, okay?
YURI
This has to be it though Debbi.
DEBBI
It will.
YURI
Ok.
DEBBI
Thank you Yuri. Thank you.
She goes to leave...
DEBBI
Oh and Yuri, would you mind putting
the heat back on?
He looks at her smugly.
She takes more bills from her purse and hands them to him.
YURI
Ok.
DEBBI
Thank you.
50 50
INT. MINIVAN - DAY
Debbi talks to Chaim on speakerphone.
51 51
INT. SPORTS BAR - SIMULTANEOUS
Chaim drinks a beer.
DEBBI
I talked to Yuri and from now on
everything goes through me. You do
not even look at him without my
permission, do you understand that?
CHAIM
...You found the money?
DEBBI
Chaim, shut up.28.
28.
CHAIM
Deb, I told you I can do this.
You’ve got enough on your plate
already. I’ll take care of it.
DEBBI
When’s your next cheque coming in?
CHAIM
Friday.
DEBBI
That comes directly to me.
Including your paystub.
CHAIM
Oh come on Deb!
DEBBI
Excuse me?
CHAIM
Ok. You’re right. Fine.
DEBBI
Do you have groceries?
CHAIM
A bit.
DEBBI
Make them last until Friday. I’ll
allocate you some budget for food
and rent. Nothing else. You’ll save
all your receipts and if they don’t
match up -- to the penny -- then
you’re dead.
CHAIM
Ok.
DEBBI
What time is your meeting today?
CHAIM
Deb, I hate going to those stupid
meetings!
DEBBI
You said they were helping.
CHAIM
I mean -- I don’t know.29.
29.
DEBBI
What time does it start?
CHAIM
This afternoon, sometime, I don’t
know. It’s soon.
DEBBI
Call me when it’s done.
CHAIM
...Yup.
DEBBI
Bye.
Debbi snaps her phone shut.
52 52
EXT. DELIVERY DEPOT - DAY
The parking lot is full of delivery trucks that look
identical to Jeff’s.
53 53
INT. DELIVERY DEPOT - OFFICE - DAY
Jeff knocks on SAUL’s office door. Saul is Jeff’s manager.
SAUL
Jeff, what’s going on, come on in.
JEFF
Saul, just a quick question for you
here.
SAUL
What can I do for you buddy?
JEFF
Listen -- are you still looking for
someone to fill those night shifts?
SAUL
Ah Jeff. It isn’t worth the cash. I
don’t want to put you through that.
You’re gonna hate it.
JEFF
Ya, Deb’s probably going to kill me
but -- I gotta bring in more money
for her and the girls.30.
30.
SAUL
I see.
JEFF
You’d be doing me a favor Saul.
It’d make a difference for us.
SAUL
...If you say so buddy.
JEFF
Thanks Saul. I appreciate it.
SAUL
Alright.
54 54
EXT. SCHOOL - DAY
School is out. Students flood from the building. Molly and
Zev find each other outside.
55 55
INT. MINIVAN - SIMULTANEOUS
Debbi’s phone rings. It’s Chaim.
56 56
EXT. CHURCH - SIMULTANEOUS
Chaim is parked outside of a church, where his Gamblers
Anonymous meeting takes place.
DEBBI
Hey.
CHAIM
Hey.
DEBBI
What it’s already done?
CHAIM
I’m just waiting for it to start
but... Listen, Deb -- I wanna tell
you something.
57 57
EXT. SCHOOL - CONTINUOUS
Debbi pulls the minivan up to the entrance. Molly and Zev run
towards it.31.
31.
58 58
INT. MINIVAN - MOVING - CONTINUOUS
Molly and Zev rush in.
DEBBI
Yeah, what?
CHAIM
I’m going to propose to Arianna.
MOLLY
UNCLE CHAIM! WHAT!
CHAIM
...Is that Molly?
DEBBI
Jesus Christ.
Molly looks ecstatic. Zev looks aloof.
MOLLY
You’re going to get married to
Arianna?
CHAIM
What do you think Mol? Is it worth
a shot? Should I go for it?
MOLLY
Arianna is going to be our Aunt!?
DEBBI
Chaim, don’t be stupid.
CHAIM
What you don’t think I should?
MOLLY
Mom! He has to!
CHAIM
Ya Deb! Zev? You there?
ZEV
Yes.
CHAIM
You think I should do it?
ZEV
...I dunno.32.
32.
DEBBI
Chaim, go to your meeting. We’ll
talk about this later.
MOLLY
Bye Uncle Chaim!
Debbi hangs up.
59 59
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - NIGHT
Molly helps Debbi bring dinner from the kitchen. Jeff and Zev
sit at the table.
JEFF
Zev. Mol. Deb. I’ve got something
to talk about.
DEBBI
...What?
JEFF
I talked to Saul -- and I’m going
to start working the evening shift.
DEBBI
No. Jeff.
JEFF
Yup. So I won’t be home for dinner
as often but we’ll be making more
money.
ZEV
How much extra?
JEFF
A few bucks.
Jeff smiles.
DEBBI
Jeff, you’re not working nights.
MOLLY
But Dad, you have to be home for
dinner.
JEFF
It’ll be okay.
Zev leaves the table and runs upstairs.33.
33.
JEFF
Ah Zev.
Everyone is quiet. Debbi looks angry.
DEBBI
What’d Saul say?
JEFF
He tried to talk me out of it.
DEBBI
Sure he did.
Zev comes back downstairs. She puts her tupperware bank on
the table in front of Jeff.
ZEV
Here.
JEFF
...You don’t have to do that Zev.
Zev looks sad.
JEFF
Let’s just eat our dinner okay?
It’s going to be alright. It’ll be
good for us in the long run.
Debbi sighs.
Everyone quietly pecks at their food.
OMITTED
60 60
OMITTED
61 61
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Zev sits next to Chaim on the couch. Hockey plays on tv.
Chaim does a magic trick and pulls a nickel out of Zev’s ear.
She doesn’t look impressed.
62 62
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
Molly watches Emmie fill a tupperware with food while Debbi
organizes serving dishes.34.
34.
EMMIE
It’s good he’s making the money but
what I don’t understand -- who’s
getting packages so late at night?
MOLLY
Ya Mom! Who’s getting packages so
late at night?
DEBBI
He’s not even making that much
extra, it’s always the principal to
him. He won’t listen to anyone.
EMMIE
Well he is doing what he has to
take care of his family Debbi. And
that’s more important than
anything.
DEBBI
Yup.
Molly lights up as --
63 63
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Jeff arrives. He wears his delivery uniform.
MOLLY
Dad!
JEFF
Hey Mol!
She gives him a hug.
CHAIM
Hey Jeff.
JEFF
Chaim, how we doing?
CHAIM
All good. How’s it going?
JEFF
All good.
CHAIM
Shifts alright?35.
35.
JEFF
Good yeah.
Debbi enters from the kitchen and kisses Jeff.
EMMIE
Ok, Zevy, Chaim, Jeffrey -- come
sit, come sit!
64 64
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Everyone sits around the table.
Molly lights the Shabbat candles.
Debbi watches Chaim and Jeff talk quietly over Molly, as she
recites the prayers.
CHAIM
Maybe we could grab a beer, when
you have some time?
JEFF
For sure we can.
Chaim looks guilty. Jeff smiles at him and pats him on the
back.
JEFF
Alright, next week or so how about?
CHAIM
Yeah. That’d be good.
Jeff looks at Debbi, she smiles.
Molly finishes the prayer. Everyone says amen.
JEFF
Ok. I gotta get back...
MOLLY
Please stay Dad! You just got here.
JEFF
Don’t worry Mol. I’ll see you back
at home alright?
Molly nods.
JEFF
See you guys soon.36.
36.
Arianna, Chaim, Molly and Zev say bye to Jeff.
Emmie brings him the tupperware she prepared for him earlier.
JEFF
That’s for me?
Yes Jeffrey.
EMMIE
JEFF
Thank you.
EMMIE
Oh shush.
Emmie looks very pleased with him.
Jeff gives Debbi a kiss on his way out.
JEFF
Don’t wait up, ok?
DEBBI
Ok. Night Jeff.
JEFF
Night.
65 65
INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
Jeff pushes a shopping cart behind Debbi.
Jeff pulls a box of cookies off the shelf.
DEBBI
What are they on for?
JEFF
Nine bucks.
DEBBI
What are they usually?
JEFF
Nine fifty.
DEBBI
Nah.
Jeff shrugs and puts them back.
Debbi’s cell phone rings.37.
37.
DEBBI
It’s my brother.
She answers.
DEBBI
Hey. I’m just with Jeff. We’re
getting groceries.
Debbi starts to pace away from Jeff.
66 66
INT. CHAIM'S CAR - SIMULTANEOUS
CHAIM
Can you talk for a minute?
DEBBI
Yup. What’s going on?
Jeff holds up a sparkly cake box. Debbi points to the price.
Jeff puts it back on the shelf.
CHAIM
I can’t believe Jeff’s having to
pick up the slack on account of me
being such an asshole.
DEBBI
Chaim, it’s under control. So --
just get it together.
Jeff finds a box of cupcakes that are on sale for fifty
percent off. He shows Debbi. She gives him the thumbs up. He
puts them into the cart.
CHAIM
I know you think Arianna deserves
better than to get stuck with a
dumb schmuck like me -- but... Mom
gave me the ring that Dad proposed
to her with...
DEBBI
You’re kidding!
CHAIM
Yeah... do you think she’ll say
yes?
DEBBI
Chaim, you know she’s too good for
you right?38.
38.
CHAIM
Yeah.
DEBBI
But -- she loves you. So?
CHAIM
I’m going to ask her Deb.
DEBBI
Good.
CHAIM
Ok.
DEBBI
I’m hanging up.
CHAIM
Bye.
DEBBI
Bye.
Debbi hangs up. She smiles.
67 67
OMITTED
68 68
OMITTED
85 85
OMITTED
86 86
OMITTED
87 87
OMITTED
88 88
INT. ARIANNA AND CHAIM’S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Arianna sits on the couch. She watches TV and eats ice cream.
Her phone rings. She picks it up.
ARIANNA
Hey hun!
CHAIM
Ari...39.
39.
ARIANNA
What’s up?
CHAIM
Listen -- can you talk?
ARIANNA
Ya. What’s going on? Is everything
alright?
CHAIM
Ya. I’m just on my way home but I
can’t find my car.
ARIANNA
Ok... well... where did you park?
CHAIM
I don’t know. I’m looking all over
the place. Could you do me a favor?
ARIANNA
What?
CHAIM
Can you look out the window?
ARIANNA
What are you talking about?
CHAIM
Maybe I left the car parked
outside.
ARIANNA
Chaim, I’m trying to watch my show -
- it’s almost done.
CHAIM
Just look out the window Ari.
ARIANNA
Ugh.
Arianna gets off the couch and opens the window. Chaim stands
on the sidewalk and holds a ring box.
CHAIM
Arianna.
ARIANNA
Oh my God. Chaim. What are you
doing? Seriously.
(MORE)
(MORE)40.
40.
ARIANNA (CONT'D)
ARIANNA (CONT'D)
Are you proposing? Is this
happening right now?
CHAIM
Yes. It is.
ARIANNA
Chaim! What are you trying to get
me to jump out the window? Get your
butt up here right now!
69 69
INT. MALL - DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY
Debbi and Arianna search through a rack of clothes.
Arianna wears an engagement ring.
ARIANNA
Every time I’m here... I can’t help
myself, there’s this one Chinese
food restaurant that I just die
for. I forget the name but do you
know the one I’m talking about? I’m
not even hungry but... I’m telling
you I’m literally obsessed.
Debbi looks at her engagement ring. She isn’t paying
attention to what Arianna is saying.
DEBBI
He is so lucky to have you Arianna.
I’m so excited.
ARIANNA
I’m like -- yes I’m marrying Chaim
but I’m more excited about being
apart of the family. Do you know
what I mean?
Debbi smiles.
DEBBI
I can’t wait.
ARIANNA
Ok, seriously though -- can I ask
you something?
DEBBI
Uh huh.
ARIANNA
But don’t laugh at me okay?41.
41.
DEBBI
Ok...
ARIANNA
Is it hard to convert to being
Jewish?
Debbi laughs.
ARIANNA
You said you wouldn’t laugh!
DEBBI
Oh you just take some little class,
it’s nothing. Don’t worry about
that.
Arianna holds a shirt up to Debbi.
ARIANNA
But what if they don’t accept me
in?
Debbi looks at her sarcastically.
ARIANNA
It’s so you.
Debbi looks at the price tag...
DEBBI
It’s a bit pricey...
Arianna shrugs.
DEBBI
Listen, here’s a quick lesson --
let’s wait and see if it goes on
sale and then maybe we consider it.
ARIANNA
Ugh! Fine.
Arianna hangs the shirt back onto the rack.
70 70
OMITTED
71 71
INT. BAR & GRILL - DAY
Debbi enters. She attracts most of the room’s attention. She
avoids all eye contact and goes straight to the ATM at the
back of the bar.42.
42.
She puts the bank card into the ATM.
She withdraws a large stack of bills, stuffs them into her
purse and leaves.
72 72
INT. EMMIE’S APARTMENT - YURI’S OFFICE - DAY
Debbi knocks on Yuri’s office door.
DEBBI
Yuri?
YURI
Hi. Debbi. Come on in.
DEBBI
How’s your Mom doing?
YURI
Not good Debbi.
DEBBI
...I’m sorry to hear that.
YURI
She’s lived a good life.
DEBBI
She has. Give her my best, okay?
YURI
Ok.
Debbi gives him the envelope.
DEBBI
There’s a bit more in there than
last time.
YURI
Ok. Well, Debbi, we spoke about the
rent but -- Chaim had also borrowed
other money from me... which he
lost.
Debbi nods.
DEBBI
Money you lent him?
Yuri nods.43.
43.
DEBBI
When was that?
YURI
Last year. He said it was a sure
deal... and now...
DEBBI
Yuri, you’ve done a favor for our
family that I will forever be
indebted to you for. But I’m paying
you the rent and that’s it.
Yuri looks disappointed.
DEBBI
I’ll come back in a few days.
73 73
INT. EMMIE’S APARTMENT - ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS
Debbi looks at her reflection in the ceiling.
74 74
INT. EMMIE’S APARTMENT - DAY
Debbi sits at the table. Emmie takes a container of frozen
soup from the freezer and puts it into the microwave.
DEBBI
We’re going to have to take you
shopping for the wedding Mom.
EMMIE
Oh forget that, I have things.
DEBBI
Right.
EMMIE
She’s so sweet. If he isn’t going
to marry a Jew -- I wouldn’t settle
for anyone else.
DEBBI
She’s too good for him. He knows
that.
EMMIE
Oh Debbi.
Emmie brings a bowl of soup to the table for Debbi.44.
44.
EMMIE
How’s Jeffrey?
DEBBI
He’s ok. He’s happy to work.
EMMIE
And Molly? How is she with him
being away?
DEBBI
She’s okay.
EMMIE
I know it isn’t easy for her. I was
like her Debbi. You were like Zev.
DEBBI
I don’t think so. I’m more like
Molly.
EMMIE
I know what good care you and
Jeffrey are taking of everyone. He
is a real mensch.
DEBBI
Thanks Mom.
Debbi drinks the soup. Emmie watches her.
EMMIE
What do you think of the soup?
DEBBI
It’s good.
EMMIE
I have more frozen if you want.
78 78
OMITTED
79 79
INT. MINIVAN - MOVING - DAY
Debbi drives. Molly sits in the front seat and is being oddly
quiet.
Debbi looks into the rear view mirror, at Zev, who stares out
the window.45.
45.
DEBBI
Molly, how was the class party?
MOLLY
Fine.
DEBBI
Did they like the cupcakes?
MOLLY
Dana saw the fifty percent off
sticker on the box so some people
spit them in the garbage.
DEBBI
Just because they were fifty
percent off? Come on.
Molly shrugs.
MOLLY
What’s the point of Dad working so
much if we still have to get
everything on sale?
Debbi looks back at Zev in the rear view mirror. Zev looks
sympathetic.
DEBBI
Not everyone can afford to you know
-- it’s bullshit. Whatever. We’re
doing our best aren’t we?
Molly nods. She looks very sad.
DEBBI
I’m sorry Molly.
They drive quietly...
ZEV
Molly do you want to put your CD
on?
Molly shrugs.
Zev reaches over and turns on Molly’s CD. The song plays as
they drive home.
75 75
OMITTED
76 76
OMITTED46.
46.
77 77
OMITTED
80 80
OMITTED
81 81
OMITTED
82 82
OMITTED
83 83
OMITTED
84 84
OMITTED
EXT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - NIGHT
Jeff pulls into the driveway.
89 89
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Debbi sits at the kitchen table with her paperwork. Jeff
enters.
DEBBI
Hey.
She gets up and kisses him.
JEFF
How come you’re still up?
Debbi takes some leftovers from the fridge and puts them into
the microwave.
Jeff takes his boots off.
DEBBI
Jeff...
JEFF
Uh huh...
DEBBI
We don’t want you to work the night
shifts any more.
JEFF
Ah Deb, it’s not that bad.47.
47.
DEBBI
But Jeff, seriously...
JEFF
It’s my job to make sure you guys
have what you need.
DEBBI
Ok. Jeff. Just -- I’m going to tell
you something and I know you’re
going to be angry at first but I
have it figured out ok?
JEFF
Uh huh...
DEBBI
Chaim spent a bunch of money that
he shouldn’t have -- of my Mom’s...
JEFF
Right.
Jeff yanks his boot off.
JEFF
The rent money or?
DEBBI
Yes.
JEFF
Right. Our half too?
DEBBI
Yes.
JEFF
How much?
DEBBI
Just... I’ve almost paid it off, so
it’s okay.
JEFF
With what?
The microwave beeps. Debbi brings the container of leftovers
to Jeff.
JEFF
Is this like a few hundred bucks?
What are we talking about here?48.
48.
DEBBI
Is that warm enough?
She takes the container back and puts it back into the
microwave.
JEFF
How much Debbi?
DEBBI
It’s fine.
JEFF
What are you paying it off with?
DEBBI
I mean... some people have more
money than they know what to do
with right? And so... sometimes
they’re making money that they
don’t really know about. So -- it’s
okay.
JEFF
Uh huh...
The microwave beeps. Debbi brings him the leftovers again. He
takes them and puts them down on the counter.
JEFF
Debbi, what are we talking about
here?
Debbi’s gaze fades off.
JEFF
Hey.
She looks back at him.
DEBBI
It’s fine Jeff. It’s already dealt
with, so --
JEFF
Whatever you’re talking about Deb,
now I know about it too.
DEBBI
Well it isn’t actually anything,
ok?
JEFF
Are you bullshitting me Deb?49.
49.
DEBBI
No, Jeff. Just -- it’s fine okay?
JEFF
You know what, no -- it isn’t. The
world isn’t our personal fucking
ATM Debbi -- so whatever you’re
talking about -- find a way to get
rid of it, or I will.
DEBBI
Jeff, please --
He goes upstairs.
The leftovers sit out on the counter.
Debbi closes the fridge door.
90 90
INT. BAR & GRILL - DAY
Debbi withdraws more money from the ATM.
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - YURI’S OFFICE - DAY
Debbi counts out a stack of bills and hands them to Yuri.
DEBBI
Thank you Yuri, for being able to
work this out.
YURI
Ok Debbi.
Debbi reaches her hand out. They shake hands.
DEBBI
We’re caught up then?
Yuri nods.
DEBBI
...If there’s anything I can do for
you -- maybe I could set you up
with something at the bank or if
your Mom needs anything -- you can
always call me okay? Don’t be
afraid to reach out.
YURI
I appreciate that Debbi.50.
50.
DEBBI
Thank you Yuri.
Debbi smiles, zips up her purse and leaves.
91 91
OMITTED
92 92
OMITTED
93 93
OMITTED
94 94
OMITTED
95 95
OMITTED
96 96
OMITTED
97 97
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Zev sits with Chaim on the couch. Debbi and Arianna set the
table for Shabbat.
Molly and Emmie are in the kitchen. Emmie stirs a big soup.
EMMIE
Do you see the heat? Do you see how
the metal looks on the pot?
Molly looks and nods.
EMMIE
That’s how you know to bring the
tomatoes.
Molly looks sad.
EMMIE
Molly. What is it?
Molly gets the tomatoes.
MOLLY
I guess I don’t feel good. I just
feel sad I guess. Like I’m tired.51.
51.
EMMIE
Well you can’t put the tomatoes in
when you’re feeling like that. It
will ruin the soup.
Emmie takes the tomatoes from her.
MOLLY
Oh...
EMMIE
I have a trick to show you.
Emmie takes a tomato and hands it to Molly.
EMMIE
Put this in the soup.
MOLLY
But I feel sad.
EMMIE
Try it.
Molly drops a tomato into the soup.
EMMIE
Now how do you feel?
It seems to cheer Molly up a bit.
EMMIE
Don’t let the feelings get in the
way.
Emmie holds the tomatoes out Molly.
EMMIE
We will wait for your Dad before we
start the prayers, okay?
MOLLY
Ok.
98 98
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jeff parks his delivery truck.
99 99
INT. EMMIE’S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Emmie shows Arianna how to set up the Shabbat candles. Molly
hovers closely, she is mesmerized by Arianna’s ring.52.
52.
Zev, Debbi and Chaim sit at the table.
Jeff enters. Him and Debbi avoid eye contact with one
another.
CHAIM
Jefferson Jeff!
MOLLY
Hi Dad!
Chaim hands Jeff a kippah. Jeff puts it on.
CHAIM
You good?
JEFF
How much did you lose Chaim?
Chaim looks fearful and ashamed.
MOLLY
Arianna, show Dad your ring!
Arianna does.
JEFF
Uh huh. Great.
Everyone looks surprised by his reaction.
CHAIM
Jeff, we can talk about that,
alright?
EMMIE
Come sit, come sit, Arianna is
going to say the prayers this week.
They all walk towards the table.
Emmie passes Arianna a barbecue lighter.
ARIANNA
It’s my first time with an audience
so no one judge me, ok?
Everyone sits at the table. Arianna lights the candle and
recites the prayer.
Arianna finishes the prayer. Everyone says amen.
Emmie, Arianna, Molly and Debbi start bringing food to the
table.53.
53.
JEFF
Chaim, you got anything to share
with the family?
CHAIM
Jeff, we can talk about it, okay?
But --
JEFF
Sure let’s talk about it.
CHAIM
I mean we still have to get that
beer right?
JEFF
Yeah. We do.
DEBBI
Jeff, please.
JEFF
You want to head downstairs? We can
do that. How about that?
DEBBI
Jeff. Stop it.
JEFF
Yup.
Everyone looks confused.
Jeff gets up.
JEFF
I gotta get back.
MOLLY
But Dad, you were barely here!
JEFF
Sorry Mol.
Jeff gives Molly and Zev a kiss on the head and heads to the
door.
As Jeff puts his boots back on -- Emmie goes to the kitchen
and quickly packs some food into a tupperware. She hands it
to him on his way out.
Jeff nods.54.
54.
Emmie smiles at him like usual, but she can see something is
wrong.
Debbi and Jeff look at each other... she turns away.
100 100
OMITTED
101 101
INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
Jeff pushes a shopping cart behind Debbi. She looks at a jar
of peppers. Jeff stops. Debbi puts the jar of peppers into
the cart.
JEFF
What’s that?
DEBBI
Red peppers.
JEFF
How much are they?
DEBBI
I don’t know, six bucks?
JEFF
Six bucks.
DEBBI
Ya.
JEFF
Can we afford six bucks?
DEBBI
Yes Jeff. We can afford six bucks.
JEFF
Say we steal -- five hundred
thousand? That’ll bring us to --
He looks at the other groceries in the cart and tallies them
up in his head...
JEFF
-- About four hundred ninety ninety
thousand nine hundred and fifty.
Great.
DEBBI
Jeff, please.55.
55.
JEFF
How about olives too, why not
right?
DEBBI
You want olives? Sure, let’s get
olives.
JEFF
Ok great, what are those worth?
DEBBI
Olives, let’s see. These ones are
five bucks and these ones are
eight.
JEFF
Wonderful. How about both? We can
afford that, can’t we? Now we’ve
got let’s say four hundred ninety
ninety thousand nine hundred and
thirty bucks. Ok, what else?
Capers?
DEBBI
Jeff, stop it.
JEFF
But Deb, if we only have three
hundred thousand, how are we going
to afford the capers?
Debbi is self conscious of the other customers in the store.
JEFF
Oh, is it a million? Did we steal a
million dollars? Well maybe we can
get the capers then. Hm.
Jeff puts a bottle of capers into the cart.
DEBBI
JEFF. It doesn’t work like that. It
isn’t a million dollars!
JEFF
Can you get rid of it not?
Debbi takes the capers out of the cart.
DEBBI
There. No capers.
Jeff takes them back.56.
56.
JEFF
Well if I want them then why don’t
I just take them?
Debbi ignores him and keeps walking.
JEFF
And what happens to the girls when
we end up getting dragged to
prison?
DEBBI
Jeff, shut up.
JEFF
Well what if I went?
DEBBI
Went where?
JEFF
Prison, Debbi.
Debbi takes the capers out of the cart again.
DEBBI
I’m not talking about this.
JEFF
Debbi, I don’t care how perfect
your plan is -- it’s too late.
There’s no going back -- it’s
either both of us going to prison
or just me, right? And if we both
go to prison, then Molly and Zev
have no one. And that’s not an
option.
Jeff puts the capers back into the cart.
Debbi is fuming.
JEFF
So I’ll go to the police and tell
them I did it and then at least you
can stay with them.
DEBBI
JEFF!
Debbi smashes the capers onto the ground.
DEBBI
You’re being insane!57.
57.
They stare at one another. The other CUSTOMERS gawk at them.
One of the GROCERY STORE EMPLOYEE’s wheels a mop bucket to
the aisle.
JEFF
Sorry, I can do it. Let me do it.
Jeff takes the mop from the Grocery Store Employee and starts
cleaning the mess.
The Grocery Store Employee looks confused.
Debbi looks ashamed.
EXT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
They pack the groceries into the trunk of the minivan. They
are both furious.
JEFF
What’s the plan then?
DEBBI
The plan is he’s my brother and I’m
taking care of it.
JEFF
That’s not good enough.
DEBBI
It’s under control Jeff. I just
need a little bit longer and then
this all goes away.
JEFF
Debbi. It doesn’t go away. It’s
already done. There’s no going
back. So what do you want me to do?
DEBBI
Nothing. I don’t want you to do
anything.
JEFF
Then I’m go in and telling them it
was me.
DEBBI
It doesn’t work like that.
JEFF
Then how does it work Debbi?58.
58.
DEBBI
Nobody finds out and it’s fine.
That’s how.
He slams the trunk closed and pushes the empty cart back to
the store.
102 102
EXT. STREET - NIGHT
Jeff wears his delivery uniform and carries a cardboard box
across the street. He looks exhausted and delirious.
103 103
OMITTED
104 104
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Debbi and Zev sit on the carpet and make bracelets from the
plastic twine Zev had in her store.
DEBBI
Those are nice colors Zev.
ZEV
...Thanks.
DEBBI
I talked to Dad about being home.
Zev shrugs.
DEBBI
We can talk about it if you want.
ZEV
...I’m sorry I stole all of that
money.
DEBBI
That’s okay Zev.
ZEV
I wanted to have a lot like you at
the bank.
Debbi looks overwhelmed. She isn’t quite sure what to say but
she smiles reassuringly.59.
59.
105 105
INT. DELIVERY TRUCK - SIMULTANEOUS
The hockey game plays on the radio -- Jeff pulls over. He
takes a sandwich from a ziplock bag and has the last few sips
of coffee from his thermos.
His cell phone sits in the cup holder.
106 106
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
Molly and Emmie tinker with a soup recipe in the kitchen.
107 107
EXT. POLICE STATION - CONTINUOUS
Jeff parks the delivery van in the parking lot.
108 108
OMITTED
109 109
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
Debbi and Zev sit on the carpet and make their bracelets.
Debbi’s cell phone rings.
DEBBI
Hello?
JEFF
Hey. Deb.
DEBBI
Jeff. Hi... are you on lunch?
JEFF
Yeah.
DEBBI
Did you have your sandwich?
JEFF
I did. Thank you.
Debbi gets up and goes into the second bedroom.
JEFF
There isn’t anything else I can do
here Debbi.
DEBBI
...What do you mean?60.
60.
JEFF
Even if you gave it back -- I mean -
- it’s too late if you already took
the money right?
DEBBI
Nobody ever needs to know. Okay?
JEFF
I love you Debbi. So much. No
matter what. But I need to take
care of the girls. And -- because
that’s my job okay?
DEBBI
...I love you too Jeff and I know
this is a lot but we’ll figure it
out.
Neither of them say anything for a few moments.
JEFF
I gotta hang up now.
DEBBI
Ok...
He doesn’t hang up.
DEBBI
There’s leftovers for you when you
get home, I put the salad in a
separate container so don’t
microwave that one ok?
JEFF
Ok Deb.
DEBBI
Love you.
JEFF
Love you too.
They hang up. Debbi goes back into the living room and sits
with Zev.
110 110
EXT. POLICE STATION - CONTINUOUS
Jeff gets out of his delivery truck and walks into the police
station.61.
61.
111 111
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY
Jeff looks distraught, exhausted and broken.
He cleans the dishes while Molly, Zev, and Debbi finish their
breakfast.
Debbi brings her plate to the sink.
DEBBI
Hey...
JEFF
...Hey.
DEBBI
I gotta head to work.
JEFF
...Ok.
Debbi walks to the front door. Jeff follows her and watches
while she puts on her shoes and her jacket.
JEFF
Come say bye to your Mom girls.
Jeff holds a frying pan. There is nothing in it.
Molly and Zev come over.
MOLLY
BYE MOMMY!
DEBBI
Bye Molly, Bye Zevy.
ZEV
Bye Mom.
JEFF
We’ll be here when you’re home ok?
DEBBI
You’re not working tonight or?
JEFF
Huh? Ya.
DEBBI
I’ll pick up the girls then? I have
to stop at my Mom’s first but...
Jeff nods. His eyes looks hollow and absent.62.
62.
DEBBI
Ok... have a good day girls.
MOLLY
Bye Mom!
ZEV
Bye Mom.
112 112
EXT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - DAY
Sergio, the security guard, smokes a cigarette and drinks
from his thermos. Debbi parks the minivan and walks towards
him.
DEBBI
Morning Sergio!
He nods and holds the door open for her.
113 113
INT. SCHOOL - MOLLY’S CLASS - DAY
Molly searches for something in her backpack.
114 114
INT. SCHOOL - ZEV’S CLASS - CONTINUOUS
Zev and her classmates quietly work at their desks.
115 115
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - STAFF ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Debbi hangs her coat. Billy calls her into his office...
DEBBI (V.O.)
Initially, I set up a fraudulent
account in Leanna’s name.
116 116
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi follows Billy down the hall.
117 117
INT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
Two POLICE stand by the window. Debbi smiles at them. She
doesn’t realize what’s going on.
DEBBI (V.O.)
I did this without her knowledge or
consent.63.
63.
118 118
INT. SCHOOL - ZEV’S CLASS - CONTINUOUS
An ADMINISTRATOR knocks on Zev’s classroom door. The TEACHER
answers it -- she gets Zev.
DEBBI (V.O.)
I arranged for a line of credit
which was secured by her eight
million dollar investment.
119 119
INT. SCHOOL - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Zev follows the Administrator down the hall.
120 120
EXT. CANADA NATIONAL BANK - DAY
The Police walk Debbi out of the bank. Sergio holds the door
open for them.
121 121
INT. SCHOOL - HALLWAY - MOLLY’S CLASS - DAY
The Teacher answers the door. The Administrator stands with
Zev...
The Teacher gets Molly -- Molly looks at Zev. Zev shrugs.
122 122
EXT. STREET - DAY
Jeff carries a cardboard box across the street and scans it
before putting it on a doorstep.
DEBBI (V.O.)
I then used seventeen unauthorized
withdrawals from the fraudulent
business account --
123 123
INT. POLICE STATION - DAY
Debbi sits at a table, across from lawyers and police. She
speaks into a recorder.
125 125
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - DAY
Molly bursts through the front door, crying profusely.
She runs upstairs and slams her bedroom door.64.
64.
124 124
INT. COURT HEARING - DAY
Debbi sits at the front of the room. Leanna sits at a table
opposite her.
DEBBI (V.O.)
-- I forged Leanna’s name on
applications, signature cards,
authorizations, withdrawals and e-
mails.
126 126
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - DAY
Zev stands at the front entrance.
DEBBI (V.O.)
I directed the funds between the
fraudulent accounts -- and withdrew
the stolen money from an ATM at All
Star Bar & Grill located at 174
Oakridge Drive.
127 127
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - DAY
Emmie is in the kitchen.
Chaim watches hockey on the couch.
Emmie picks up the phone. Chaim gets up and takes it away
from her.
DEBBI (V.O.)
When my husband became aware of
what was going on he came to the
police and tried to take ownership
of what had happened...
128 128
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - DAY
Jeff stands in the doorway.
DEBBI (V.O.)
...But he in no way had anything to
do with it. He made a desperate
attempt to protect our daughters.
Zev goes upstairs and continues to knock on Molly’s door, but
Molly will not let her in.65.
65.
129 129
INT. PRISON - CELL - DAY
Debbi stares closely at the stitching in her pillowcase. She
ignores the racket that echoes into her room.
130 130
OMITTED
131 131
OMITTED
132 132
INT. PRISON - CELL - DAY
Debbi meticulously pulls the loose thread from her
pillowcase.
133 133
INT. PRISON - CELL - DAY
Debbi’s hair is a mess, her eyes are puffy and her face is
swollen from crying.
She stares blankly out the window...
134 134
OMITTED
135 135
EXT. PRISON - DAY
Emmie, Chaim, Arianna, Molly and Zev walk towards the
entrance...
136 136
INT. PRISON - SECURITY AREA - CONTINUOUS
They pass through security and walk down a hallway.
137 137
INT. PRISON - VISITING AREA - CONTINUOUS
Debbi looks overwhelmed at the sight of Molly and Zev. She
regains her composure as they rush over to her.
Emmie, Chaim and Arianna wait and stand close to the wall.
Molly hugs Debbi. Zev stands back.
DEBBI
Hi, sweetie.
Debbi is taken aback by how scared Zev looks.66.
66.
DEBBI
It’s ok Zev.
Zev walks towards her and gives her a hug as well.
DEBBI
Are you guys ok?
MOLLY
We miss you Mom.
DEBBI
I miss you so much.
Zev looks frightened from the other prisoners. Debbi takes
Zev’s hand.
MOLLY
Are all of these people in jail?
Debbi doesn’t answer Molly’s question.
Molly looks up at her, Zev still looks at the other
prisoners.
Debbi looks at Arianna, Chaim and Emmie. Arianna awkwardly
waves.
Debbi takes both Molly and Zev’s hands.
DEBBI
I love you both so much and you
need to remember that every single
day that I’m away.
Molly stares at her. Zev’s eyes wander back to the other
prisoners.
DEBBI
But... I need you guys to make me a
promise okay?
MOLLY
Okay.
Zev nods.
DEBBI
You’re going to feel a lot of
things over the next while. Some
days you’re going to be very angry
at me and that’s okay, I deserve
that...
(MORE)
(MORE)67.
67.
DEBBI (CONT'D)
DEBBI (CONT'D)
But I need to know that you’ll look
after each other while I’m gone,
okay? No matter what happens, as
long as I know you two are sticking
together then I can get through
this.
We will Mom.
MOLLY
DEBBI
Zevy?
ZEV
We will.
DEBBI
Promise me?
MOLLY
We will.
Zev nods.
DEBBI
I thought I was protecting our
family by doing what I did, but I
was wrong.
Debbi takes a deep breath.
DEBBI
But while I’m here -- I can’t have
you spending these special years of
your life coming in and out of
prison and having to see all of
this. It would be selfish of me to
put you guys through that. And I
know it’s going to be so hard --
Debbi quickly wipes some tears away --
DEBBI
-- but I don’t want you guys to
come back here again, ok?
MOLLY
Mom...
Zev looks heartbroken and confused. She hugs Debbi.
ZEV
No Mom.68.
68.
MOLLY
We’ll come back every weekend Mom.
Don’t worry. We’ll come and see
you.
DEBBI
We aren’t going to see each other
for a while ok?
MOLLY
No.
DEBBI
But I promise you -- I’ll come home
one day okay?
ZEV
It’s okay Mom, we’ll come see you.
Right Molly?
MOLLY
Ya, we’ll come! Don’t worry Mom.
DEBBI
I’m going to say goodbye now okay?
MOLLY
But we’ll come back. Every weekend.
DEBBI
I will be thinking of you guys
every single second. I love you so
so much.
Debbi hugs both of them and then gets up to leave.
MOLLY
You can’t just go Mom. We just got
here.
ZEV
Mom?
DEBBI
I’m sorry.
Debbi walks away.
MOLLY
MOM!
Molly runs after her but Chaim grabs her.69.
69.
MOLLY
MOM!
Arianna holds Molly, trying to console her. Zev watches Debbi
walk away and wipes her tears as fast as they come.
138 138
EXT. SYNAGOGUE - DAY
The sun beams down onto the synagogue.
139 139
INT. SYNAGOGUE - BIMA - CONTINUOUS
Arianna holds a bouquet, her wedding dress drapes onto the
ground. Chaim is dressed in a suit and glows with happiness.
Arianna’s MOM, DAD, and three older brothers -- MIKEY, STEVIE
and KARL stand by her side. They are all a few years apart
and each have their own partners and children. All of the men
wear kippas.
Emmie, Molly and Zev stand on Chaim’s side. Emmie wears a
modest outfit. Molly and Zev wear matching dresses.
A PHOTOGRAPHER takes pictures of them.
MIKEY
When’s the cup smashing thing?
KARL
I got a thermos in the truck you
can use.
STEVIE
Why bust a perfectly good thermos?
ARIANNA
No one cares about your stupid
thermos Karl!
140 140
INT. PRISON - DAY
Debbi lays in her cell and stares at the ceiling.
141 141
INT. SYNAGOGUE - BIMA - DAY
MIKEY
Let’s do one without the hats.
ARIANNA
No Karl!70.
70.
KARL
You’ve been Jewish for a month what
do you care?
ARIANNA
Do you need to embarrass us like
this Karl, really?
STEVIE
I mean -- doesn’t wearing these
hats make us bad Catholics?
KARL’S WIFE
Arianna, maybe we should get one
without the hats just in case?
KARL
There’s no hell for Jews right?
ARIANNA
I’ve been Jewish for a month, what
do I know?
142 142
INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
Jeff walks an empty shopping cart up and down the aisles.
143 143
INT. SYNAGOGUE - BIMA - DAY
CHAIM
Hey Stevie, you want to convert
too? For twenty bucks I’ll meet you
in the parking lot with a pair of
the rabbi’s dentures.
ARIANNA
Gross Chaim!
She whacks him with the bouquet.
CHAIM
Come on, twenty bucks is a steal!
144 144
INT. SYNAGOGUE - EVENT ROOM - NIGHT
Arianna and Chaim sit on display at the front of the room.
A slideshow is projected onto the wall behind them...
pictures of Arianna and Chaim throughout the decades cycle
through.71.
71.
People clap as Molly and Zev awkwardly go up to the podium.
Molly unfolds a speech that’s printed on computer paper and
hands a second copy to Zev.
145 145
EXT. SYNAGOGUE - NIGHT
Jeff’s truck idles out front. Some of the wedding guests
smoke and chat. Molly and Zev hug Arianna before rushing over
to the delivery truck.
146 146
INT. PRISON - REC. ROOM - DAY
Debbi sits by the window. She holds a paperback book.
She doesn’t engage with the people around her.
147 147
INT. PRISON - VISITING AREA - DAY
Debbi sits across from Emmie. Debbi is unable to make eye
contact.
148 148
INT. PRISON - LIBRARY - DAY
Debbi browses through the shelves.
149 149
INT. PRISON - VISITING AREA - DAY
Molly arrives with Emmie. Debbi doesn’t go out to see them.
150 150
EXT. PRISON - YARD - DAY
Debbi smokes a cigarette in the prison yard.
151 151
INT. PRISON - CELL - DAY
Debbi holds an envelope. It’s a letter from Molly.
152 152
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Molly, Zev, Chaim, Arianna and Emmie eat Shabbat dinner.
153 153
INT. PRISON - REC ROOM - NIGHT
Debbi watches TV with other prisoners. Everyone looks
hopelessly bored.72.
72.
154 154
INT. PRISON - WASH AREA - NIGHT
Debbi brushes her teeth.
155 155
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - BATHROOM - NIGHT
Molly and Zev brush their teeth.
156 156
OMITTED
157 157
INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY
Jeff walks an empty shopping cart up and down the aisles.
158 158
INT. PRISON - VISITING AREA - DAY
Jeff waits at a table.
Debbi sees him, but doesn’t go out.
159 159
INT. GERSHWIN HOUSE - MOLLY’S ROOM - DAY
Molly lays under the covers.
Zev sits on the edge of Molly’s bed. From the window -- Jeff
shovels snow from the driveway.
160 160
INT. PRISON - DAY
Debbi lays in her cell and re-reads one of the letters Molly
had sent her.
161 161
THREE YEARS LATER --
162 162
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - STREET - DAY
Chaim walks Emmie to his car. They look slightly older. Chaim
looks healthier, Emmie more graceful.
163 163
INT. CHAIM’S CAR - CONTINUOUS
Chaim drives slowly. Emmie is tense.73.
73.
CHAIM
Ok, Ma, I got one.
Emmie doesn’t respond.
CHAIM
Ok -- so -- there’s this Bubby and
she’s at the beach with her
granddaughter -- and the
granddaughter is running in and out
of the water with the waves and
having fun -- but the Bubby’s
refusing to go in the water because
she doesn’t want to get her hair
wet -- and so she’s just sitting
there on her beach towel watching
over her little granddaughter --
Emmie seems more intrigued by the story now.
CHAIM
-- And then, out of nowhere a
massive wave comes in and swallows
the granddaughter whole! The Bubby
screams and holds her fists to the
sky and cries “God, how could you
do this to me? Haven’t I been a
wonderful Bubby? Haven’t I been a
wonderful Mother? Haven’t I kept a
kosher home? Haven’t I lit the
Shabbat candles every Friday
night?” A voice booms back from the
sky,
“Alright, alright! Enough
already!” And with that -- another
massive wave erupts from the ocean
and crashes onto the beach... and
as the water recedes... there is
her granddaughter -- smiling and
splashing around like nothing had
ever happened... but the Bubby
looks furious...
“Excuse me! We had
a deal!” The voice booms back
again,
“I have returned your
granddaughter. Are you not
satisfied?” The Bubby responds --
“No! She had a hat!”
Chaim expects Emmie to laugh, but she refuses.
EMMIE
Chaim! What joke is that to tell at
a moment like this? Use your head.74.
74.
CHAIM
Oh come on, Ma -- Dad used to tell
that one all the time!
164 164
EXT. PRISON - DAY
Debbi waits outside the gate. Her hair is unkempt, her skin
looks drab and grey, her eyes are hollow. She holds a duffle
bag and wears a sweatsuit.
Chaim’s car pulls up. Emmie gets out and hugs Debbi.
DEBBI
Hi Mom.
Emmie continues to hug her...
DEBBI
It’s okay Mom...
Eventually Debbi drops her duffle bag and hugs Emmie back.
165 165
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - SECOND BEDROOM - DAY
Debbi puts down her duffle bag and sits on the edge of the
bed.
There are framed school pictures of Zev and Molly on the
nightstand from when Debbi would have last seen them.
The spools of plastic twine that Debbi, Zev and Molly used to
make bracelets out of sit on the dresser.
166 166
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Chaim lays on the couch and watches hockey --
Debbi helps Emmie bring bowls of soup to the table.
EMMIE
Chaim, come sit down.
CHAIM
In a sec.
Debbi brings his bowl of soup to the couch.
CHAIM
Thanks Deb.75.
75.
Debbi sits at the table with Emmie. Emmie stares at her
endearingly. Debbi looks embarrassed.
DEBBI
Mom, what?
Emmie watches her eat her soup.
EMMIE
I made extra to freeze, and you can
have another bowl if you’d like.
DEBBI
Thank you Mom.
167 167
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - STREET - BAR & GRILL - NIGHT
Debbi slowly walks down the street. She wears sweatpants and
an oversized parka.
She walks to the Bar & Grill and peers into the window --
It hasn’t changed at all -- the men are still slumped along
the barstools, nursing their bottles of beer --
Debbi looks towards the glowing VLTs and ATMs at the back of
the bar...
168 168
EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT
Debbi walks to the same gas station that her and Chaim fought
at three years prior.
169 169
INT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS
Debbi selects a bottle of juice from a drink cooler and takes
it to the till. The Attendant scans the juice.
DEBBI
A pack of Newports also.
As the Attendant pulls the cigarettes, Debbi looks at the
scratch tickets that line inside of the counter display.
The Attendant rings her up, the bill is just over ten
dollars.
Debbi hands him her points card.
The Attendant scans it. It deducts most of the bill but there
is some remaining.76.
76.
DEBBI
My Mom lives up the street, can I
get it back to you?
The Attendant shakes his head.
DEBBI
Alright -- just the Newports then.
Debbi leaves the juice behind.
170 170
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - BAR - CONTINUOUS
As she smokes, Debbi gravitates back to the VLT and ATM glow
that emanates from the bar.
She walks by slowly and peers into the window.
171 171
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - SECOND BEDROOM - NIGHT
Debbi lies awake and stares at the ceiling.
She re-reads her letters from Molly -- similarly to how she
did while in prison.
172 172
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - DAY
Debbi watches the same TV show that she watched with the
others in the prison rec room.
173 173
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - DINING ROOM - DAY
Debbi reads a paperback by the window.
174 174
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - DAY
Debbi smokes outside.
175 175
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - NIGHT
Emmie holds the phone. Debbi stands in the doorway on the
other end of the kitchen. She looks anxious and
uncomfortable.
DEBBI
Are you sure Mom?77.
77.
EMMIE
Yes Debbi.
DEBBI
I don’t know if it’s a good idea.
EMMIE
Oh shush.
DEBBI
Maybe I could go get a job first so
they don’t think I’m --
EMMIE
-- Hi Jeffrey ... Good ... I want
to invite the girls for Shabbat on
Friday ... Debbi will be there ...
Yes ... Ok ... You can drop them
off at five thirty ... You too.
176 176
OMITTED
177 177
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - DAY
Emmie puts a boxy overcoat onto Debbi.
DEBBI
Do you think it looks okay?
EMMIE
Very nice and very professional. It
was expensive when I bought it.
Debbi tries to look confident in the mirror. She holds a
resume folder.
EMMIE
Any place would be lucky to have
you.
DEBBI
Thanks Mom.
Emmie fixes the collar on the jacket.
DEBBI
I’ll be back in a couple hours or
so ok?
EMMIE
Good.78.
78.
DEBBI
Should I pick anything up?
Emmie thinks for a moment --
EMMIE
Grape juice! We need to make sure
there’s enough for Kiddush tonight.
Emmie takes a twenty dollar bill from her purse and gives it
to Debbi.
DEBBI
Ok.
Emmie fixes Debbi’s jacket and sends her out the door.
178 178
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS
Debbi holds her resume folder under her arm. Someone else
enters the elevator. Debbi smiles awkwardly.
179 179
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - STREET - CONTINUOUS
Debbi smokes and walks past the Bar & Grill. She walks past
the gas station, the money mart and goes to the Star Alliance
bank.
She stands at the doorway... but is too frightened to go
inside.
Instead she goes to -- Seymour’s Deli.
180 180
INT. SEYMOUR’S DELI - CONTINUOUS
Debbi looks at the deli counter -- there are saran wrapped
dishes -- kreplach, blintz, herring and chopped liver.
SEYMOUR FISCHSTEIN, seventy, stands behind the deli counter.
The wrinkle lines in his face are deeply defined and his eyes
are hardly capable of opening. He wears a paper hat and a
mustard stained apron.
DEBBI
Mr. Fischstein?
SEYMOUR
What’s good?79.
79.
DEBBI
It’s me, Debbi, Allen Gershwin’s
daughter.
He squints at her for a moment. A big smile overtakes his
face.
SEYMOUR
Eh! Shelly!
SHELLY, seventy, a tiny woman with a slight hunchback comes
over. She holds a stack of dishes, a rag and a spray bottle.
SHELLY
Is he giving you trouble?
SEYMOUR
Allen Gershwin’s daughter.
SHELLY
You’re kidding.
Shelly puts the dishes down and puts on her glasses.
SHELLY
Bubeleh! Where’s your little
brother? What a nudnik.
DEBBI
I’ll tell him you say hi!
SEYMOUR
You know, kid -- last I checked you
weren’t any taller than a rolling
pin.
Debbi smiles, hugging her resume folder.
DEBBI
I was in the neighbourhood and I
thought I’d see if you had any
coffee brewing.
He shakes his head --
SEYMOUR
Shelly, how fresh is that coffee?
SHELLY
Depends on who’s asking?
Shelly winks at Debbi.80.
80.
SHELLY
It’s fresh.
Seymour pours her coffee into a paper cup that has the
Seymour’s Deli logo stamped onto it.
DEBBI
And I need a carton of grape juice.
SHELLY
Say Shabbat Shalom to your Ma.
DEBBI
Thank you. You too.
Shelly wanders back to the kitchen.
Seymour bags a carton of grape juice for her.
SEYMOUR
You know Debbi -- being around all
that cash all day -- who can blame
you for trying?
Debbi is taken aback.
DEBBI
Sure Mr. Fischstein.
SEYMOUR
You think you’re the only kid from
the Talmud Torah whose tried
pulling a stunt like that? Come on,
chin up. It was worth a shot right?
DEBBI
Well when you put it like that...
Debbi nods sarcastically.
SEYMOUR
But I’ll tell you what, if I ever
caught you grubbing around my till,
I’d slice your paws off with a
brisket knife and sell your head to
the boys at Reza’s Schwarma where
they’d carve your face into a
donair. Ha! How about that?
DEBBI
Ya. Sure Mr. Fischstein.81.
81.
SEYMOUR
Ah I’m just giving you a hard time
kid. How about a rugelach?
DEBBI
I’m alright.
He packages a rugelach for her.
SEYMOUR
You got an apricot there.
DEBBI
Well thank you.
He hands her a coffee and a paper bag with the grape juice
and the rugelach.
DEBBI
What do I owe you?
SEYMOUR
Till’s closed. You’re good. Welcome
back kid. Say hi to your Mom.
Debbi smiles.
SEYMOUR
Alright, enough with the sentiment,
go on.
181 181
EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS
Debbi walks back to the Star Alliance Bank. She now has the
courage to enter.
182 182
INT. STAR ALLIANCE BANK - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi stands at the counter. The TELLER looks jaded and
tired.
DEBBI
Hi! I was wondering if the manager
happened to be available?
TELLER
Um, sure -- lemme check.
As Debbi waits, she watches another TELLER who counts an
endless stack of bills out onto the counter for a CUSTOMER.
DANIELLE, forties, enters and smiles abrasively --82.
82.
DANIELLE
Hi there... you were looking for
the manager?
DEBBI
Oh hi! My name’s Debbi and I was
just wondering if I could leave my
resume with you? In case maybe
you’re looking for anyone down the
line?
DANIELLE
Oh, of course! Do you mind if I
take a look?
DEBBI
Sure!
Danielle looks impressed by Debbi’s resume.
DANIELLE
Well hey, listen, I’ve got a couple
minutes right now, how about an
impromptu interview?
DEBBI
...Oh. Ok.
DANIELLE
My name’s Danielle.
DEBBI
Debbi. Great to meet you!
They shake hands.
183 183
INT. STAR ALLIANCE BANK - DANIELLE’S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
Debbi sits across from Danielle.
DANIELLE
Can I get you anything? Coffee,
water?
DEBBI
Oh nope! I’m good. Got a coffee
already.
Debbi holds up her Seymour’s Deli coffee cup and takes a sip.
DANIELLE
That place is so cute isn’t it?83.
83.
DEBBI
Ya! My Dad and Mr. Fischstein grew
up together.
DANIELLE
...You know, you just look so
familiar but I can’t quite place
it...
DEBBI
My Mom actually lives right up the
street, so I’m always in the area.
DANIELLE
That makes sense. So. Your resume
looks really impressive! Canada
National -- you were there for a
while? It looks like you took some
time off?
DEBBI
I um -- sorry, I got distracted.
Are those your kids there? They’re
adorable.
Debbi points to a picture frame on Danielle’s desk.
DANIELLE
Ya! Jack and Peter. Four and six.
Do you have any?
DEBBI
Ya! Two as well. Molly and Zev.
DANIELLE
That’s so nice. How old?
DEBBI
Eight and ten. Oh. I mean... eleven
and thirteen.
DANIELLE
Ugh, honestly -- they grow up so
fast right? It’s like -- it blows
my mind.
DEBBI
I know.
DANIELLE
Okay, okay. So Canada National.
Tell me about Canada National.84.
84.
DEBBI
Right. I mean ya. It was great in a
lot of ways. I’ll say some of their
process was a bit -- old fashioned -
- but -- that was my place for a
long time you know?
DANIELLE
You were at the downtown branch or?
DEBBI
Downtown? Oh. No. I wasn’t at the
downtown branch.
DANIELLE
Which one were you at?
DEBBI
Sorry?
DANIELLE
Which branch did you work at?
DEBBI
Oh. I was at the um --
Debbi nervously clears her voice.
DEBBI
The -- Oakridge... branch.
DANIELLE
...You’re kidding!
Danielle’s eyes brighten. Debbi tries to force a smile.
DANIELLE
Ok. So -- you probably get asked
this all the time but -- were you
there for the whole thing with the
woman who stole all the money?
As Debbi wallows in the silence Danielle starts to realize
that Debbi is -- the woman who stole all the money.
DEBBI
I’m sorry -- maybe we should just --
I don’t know -- I’m sorry -- I
don’t know what I was thinking.
Danielle look speechless and increasingly perturbed.85.
85.
DANIELLE
Sorry, I didn’t... I don’t really
know what to say.
They both look embarrassed and ashamed.
DEBBI
Honestly, I have no right being
here. I should go.
Debbi gets up and nervously buttons her jacket.
DANIELLE
Sorry...
DEBBI
I shouldn’t have come. I’m sorry --
I just thought -- I don’t know --
I’m sorry for taking up your time.
Debbi leaves Danielle’s office.
184 184
INT. BAR & GRILL - CONTINUOUS
Pool tables, dart boards and a row of VLT’s are lined up by
the restroom. The bar is sparsely populated with the same
ragged and disillusioned men.
Debbi enters and attracts all of the attention in the room.
She avoids all eye contact and goes straight to the VLT’s.
She takes the twenty dollar bill that Emmie gave her and
feeds it into the VLT.
Within a few seconds she makes all the wrong choices and
loses the money.
She looks defeated and broken. She leans her head onto the
VLT screen.
The bartender wipes down the bar and the patrons mutter to
one another. Debbi fades into the background until --
HANK, sixties, approaches her with two bottles of beer.
Debbi looks away from him. She still leans her forehead on
the screen and closes her eyes. He raises an eyebrow and sits
next to her.
HANK
This ones for me --
He holds up one of the bottles of beer.86.
86.
HANK
-- And this ones for me too --
He places the second bottle into the cup holder that extends
from the machine.
HANK
-- In case you thought otherwise.
He feeds a five dollar bill into his terminal.
185 185
EXT. OAKRIDGE CRESCENT - NEIGHBOURHOOD - SIMULTANEOUS
The minivan putters down the road...
186 186
INT. BAR & GRILL - CONTINUOUS
Debbi drinks Hank’s second bottle of beer.
Hank goes to the ATM and comes back with a stack of twenty
dollar bills. He rests one of them on the back of his hand.
He offers it to Debbi -- she takes it and sees there are two
lines of white powder on his hand.
DEBBI
...I’m good.
Hank continues to hold his hand out.
HANK
Mind rolling that up there?
Debbi hesitantly rolls the twenty dollar bill into a tube and
hands it back to him.
Hank inhales one of the lines, wipes his nose with his thumb
and hands Debbi back the twenty dollar bill.
She unrolls it and then feeds it into the VLT. Hank laughs.
Debbi selects all of the wrong bets on the VLT and loses the
money.
Hank hands her another twenty. She feeds it into the machine.
187 187
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS
The minivan pulls up to the entrance of the building.87.
87.
188 188
INT. BAR & GRILL - SIMULTANEOUS
Hank comes back from the bar with two shots of liquor and
four bottles of beer. He offers Debbi one of the shots.
DEBBI
I’m alright.
Hank dangles a fifty dollar bill in front of her. She tries
to take it but he pulls it away. He offers her the shot
again.
Debbi drinks the shot. He lets her have the fifty dollar
bill.
She spends it quickly. She is getting more frustrated. Hank
raises an eyebrow at her.
Hank sets out two more lines of white powder onto his hand.
This time he offers her a one hundred dollar bill.
Debbi takes the hundred and goes to feed it into the machine
but Hank stops her.
HANK
Hey.
Debbi rolls up the one hundred dollar bill and hands it back
to him. He uses it to inhale the white powder. He gives it
back to her... she inhales the second line.
He nods at the machine. Debbi feeds in the bill.
189 189
INT. BAR & GRILL - NIGHT
Debbi’s head wobbles as she presses the buttons on the VLT
screen. She takes another shot with Hank.
Debbi raises a sarcastic eyebrow at him.
She smiles and eyes the ATM.
Hank follows her gaze and goes back to the ATM to withdraw
more money.
She tries to get up but falls off her stool.
Debbi holds up her pack of cigarettes. Hank nods.
She leaves her jacket on the stool.88.
88.
190 190
EXT. BAR & GRILL - CONTINUOUS
Debbi looks inebriated. She shivers and struggles to light
her cigarette.
Debbi looks up at Emmie’s apartment building.
The Shabbat candles burn in Emmie’s window.
Debbi finishes her cigarette and goes back into the bar.
191 191
INT. BAR & GRILL - CONTINUOUS
Debbi comes back to the VLT.
As they continue losing, Debbi becomes noticeably more and
more frustrated until -- she wins.
The machine lights up. Debbi smiles.
HANK
YEEHAW!
Debbi reaches for the winnings but Hank grabs her wrist and
stops her.
HANK
I don’t think so little lady.
Debbi looks angry.
HANK
You want to hit the road or what?
Debbi gets off her stool and goes to the restroom.
The bar is quiet. The hockey game plays on TV. The few
patrons nurse their drinks.
Debbi comes out of the restroom. There is vomit on her shirt.
She stumbles out the back door of the bar...
192 192
EXT. BAR & GRILL - ALLEYWAY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi uses a dumpster to support her from falling onto the
ground.
193 193
EXT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
Debbi stumbles along the wall and gets to Emmie’s apartment
building. She has difficulty opening the door --89.
89.
194 194
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi is confused at which direction to walk.
195 195
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS
Debbi struggles to keep her balance. She looks at her
distorted reflection in the ceiling. The elevator doors open.
196 196
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi fumbles down the hallway. She can’t get her keys to
open the lock. She bangs on the door. No one answers as it is
not Emmie’s apartment. Debbi is on the wrong floor.
Debbi lies down on the ground. One of the neighbouring doors
peers open.
The NEIGHBOUR sees Debbi lying on the ground. They quietly
close their door and lock it.
197 197
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - LATER
Debbi is passed out on the ground. There is vomit on the
carpet. Yuri comes out of the elevator and helps Debbi up --
198 198
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS
Yuri helps Debbi down the hallway. She is barely conscious.
He knocks on Emmie’s door. Emmie and Arianna answer. Chaim is
behind them.
199 199
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - SECOND BEDROOM - DAY
Debbi sleeps face down on the bed. She still wears her shoes
and jacket.
She slowly wakes up. She is raccoon eyed. Her clothes have
vomit on them.
There is a glass of water beside the bed...
200 200
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Chaim sleeps on the couch. He wakes up as Debbi enters the
room.
Debbi goes back into the bedroom and closes the door.90.
90.
Chaim goes to her door.
He knocks.
CHAIM
Hey Deb...
She doesn’t answer.
201 201
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - SECOND BEDROOM - SIMULTANEOUS
Debbi sits on the ground next to the door.
202 202
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY - SIMULTANEOUS
Chaim leans his head against the door.
CHAIM
Deb...
Emmie walks from the kitchen with a tray of breakfast.
CHAIM
Mom’s made some breakfast for you
if you want...
203 203
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - SECOND BEDROOM - SIMULTANEOUS
Debbi watches their shadows under the door...
CHAIM (O.S.)
Come on Deb...
DEBBI
I’m okay Chaim, you don’t have to
be here.
CHAIM (O.S.)
It’s alright.
DEBBI
You can go Chaim. It’s okay.
CHAIM (O.S.)
I’m here for you Debbi. Ok?
DEBBI
I’m ok Chaim.91.
91.
CHAIM (O.S.)
Because Debbi... you stood by me
and you never turned your back on
me, right?
Debbi wipes tears away.
CHAIM (O.S.)
No matter what I did and how badly
I fucked up, you were always there.
So I’m gonna be too, if you like it
or not.
She unlocks the door.
Emmie hands the breakfast tray to Chaim and gives Debbi a
hug.
204 204
INT. MALL - DAY
Debbi and Arianna slowly walk through the mall.
205 205
INT. MALL - FOOD COURT - DAY
Debbi and Arianna share a tray of Chinese food.
ARIANNA
So? It’s good right? I’m telling
you, I’d prefer this to that place
in Chinatown that Chaim thinks is
all that. Which by the way -- that
place is a rip off -- it’s like
twenty dollars a dish and the
portions are tiny.
Debbi nods...
Arianna can see that Debbi doesn’t care about the food.
Arianna smiles softly.
ARIANNA
Hey.
Debbi mirrors Arianna’s expression, but doesn’t seem to have
any words.
They sit quietly.92.
92.
ARIANNA
If I’m being honest Deb -- I really
don’t blame you for taking all that
money... I mean -- like whatever,
right?
Debbi doesn’t look so sure.
ARIANNA
But the girls... they really want
to see you and... you know?
Debbi looks away.
DEBBI
I can never thank you enough, for
being there for them but... they
deserve better than me.
ARIANNA
They mean the entire world to me
Debbi, and I will tell you one
thousand percent, they are not
better off without their mother.
Debbi avoids eye contact with Arianna. Her gaze fades off...
206 206
INT. SEYMOUR’S DELI - DINING ROOM - DAY
Debbi’s hair is tied back with a pen, she wears a waitressing
outfit.
She pushes a mop bucket past the swinging kitchen doors and
pulls it towards the sole customer in the dining room -- a
man who wears an egregiously fuzzy beard and a multitude of
torn winter jackets.
He is passed out. Debbi mops a puddle beneath him.
Debbi props up a wet floor sandwich board and brings the mop
bucket back behind the deli counter.
Seymour stretches saran wrap over a tray of potato salad.
SEYMOUR
Thanks kid.
DEBBI
All good Mr. Fischstein.93.
93.
207 207
INT. SEYMOUR’S DELI - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
Shelly polishes cutlery beside the dish pit.
SHELLY
You want to run out and take that
smoke Debbi?
DEBBI
Ya. Thanks.
Debbi puts on her jacket and uses a mangled cardboard flat as
a doorstop before stepping out into the alleyway.
208 208
EXT. SEYMOUR’S DELI - ALLEYWAY - CONTINUOUS
Debbi lights her cigarette and sits on a stack of busted milk
crates, beside a grease trap.
209 209
INT. SEYMOUR’S DELI - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Jeff enters. His hair has mostly turned all grey. His posture
is more broad.
He walks through the restaurant, avoiding the wet floor
sandwich board and the man that sits beside it.
Seymour yells at him from behind the deli counter --
SEYMOUR
That’s the VIP section -- you can
sit with the ordinary folk by the
window there.
JEFF
...Thanks.
210 210
INT. SEYMOUR’S DELI - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS
Debbi walks back through the kitchen. She sees that there’s a
customer waiting for her.
DEBBI
Sorry to keep you waiting there --
She realizes it’s Jeff and freezes... he stands up.
They are overwhelmed to see one another.
JEFF
Hi Deb.94.
94.
Debbi is angry, shocked and relieved to see him.
JEFF
...I can leave but --
Debbi sits down at the table.
He sits back down and watches her take in that he still wears
his wedding ring.
JEFF
I um...
DEBBI
...It’s okay.
They sit quietly for a few moments.
JEFF
I just want you to know -- that the
girls would really want to see you,
Debbi... if you’d give it another
chance -- they’d really want to see
you.
Debbi stays still while Jeff begins to fidget. It becomes
difficult for him to maintain eye contact.
JEFF
...I’m um --
Jeff gets up to leave.
JEFF
-- I’m sorry Debbi.
Debbi takes his hand. He stops.
Debbi looks at him reassuringly. Jeff looks ashamed but tries
to return the expression.
Debbi lets go of his hand.
JEFF
Is it okay if they call?
Debbi nods.
JEFF
I’ll tell them, ok?
DEBBI
Ok.95.
95.
Jeff leaves.
Debbi watches him go.
211 211
INT. EMMIE'S APARTMENT - DAY
Debbi puts on her jacket and looks in the mirror quickly
before leaving the house.
EMMIE
Let me see.
Emmie rubs a smudge off of Debbi’s cheek.
DEBBI
Mom...
Emmie smiles.
EMMIE
They love you no matter what.
212 212
EXT. EMMIE’S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY
Debbi waits outside of the building and watches the minivan
drives towards her.
Molly and Zev exit. They are older now. Molly is thirteen.
Zev is eleven.
Molly looks more stalky. She wears a brightly patterned
jacket and the same glasses frames.
Zev is now slightly taller than Molly. She looks frail. Her
outfit is more subtle than Molly’s.
Molly runs out and hugs Debbi.
Zev stands farther away. She looks shy.
Debbi hugs Molly and won’t let go.
DEBBI
Hi Molly.
MOLLY
Hi Mom.
DEBBI
I missed you so much.96.
96.
MOLLY
I missed you too.
...Molly slowly lets go. Zev looks nervous to approach Debbi.
DEBBI
Hi Zevy.
ZEV
...Hey.
Zev gives her a quick hug.
Zev looks back at Jeff. Debbi and Molly look over at him. He
unrolls the window.
JEFF
You guys gonna be warm enough?
Zev and Molly nod.
JEFF
Ok.
Molly smiles and Zev looks at him reassuringly.
213 213
EXT. PARK - DAY
Debbi, Molly and Zev slowly walk and eat cookies from a paper
bag that has Seymour’s Deli logo stamped onto it.
MOLLY
Maybe one day we could come for
lunch with Bubby when you’re
working.
DEBBI
Maybe...
Debbi nibbles a bit off of a broken sugar cookie and offers
it to Zev.
Zev avoids making eye contact with Debbi.
DEBBI
But you know, maybe we could go out
somewhere else sometime too? When I
get my cheque I can take you guys
out, how about that?
MOLLY
Ok!97.
97.
DEBBI
What do you think Zev? What
restaurants do you like these days?
Zev shrugs.
MOLLY
Maybe... pizza?
ZEV
(to Molly)
Which place?
MOLLY
Maybe um -- that place we go with
Uncle Chaim and Auntie Arianna?
ZEV
I guess yah. That ones good.
Zev still won’t make eye contact.
Jeff idles the minivan at the other end of the park.
DEBBI
I know this is so cheesy but -- I
found all these old craft supplies
at Bubby’s house, do you remember
these things? You guys used to
think they were so cool.
Debbi takes three plastic braided bracelets from her pocket.
Molly smiles.
MOLLY
You made these for us?
She offers one to Molly and one to Zev.
DEBBI
Yeah... do you remember them?
Zev nods.
DEBBI
I just thought maybe it could be
something we have -- the three of
us. If you guys want...
Molly hugs Debbi and takes a bracelet. Zev takes hers and
hugs Debbi too. The three of them hold closely together.98.
98.
DEBBI
...I’m so sorry that I wasn’t there
for you guys.
MOLLY
It’s ok Mom.
Zev finally looks at Debbi.
DEBBI
Can we do this again? Is that okay?
Molly looks at Zev. Zev nods. Molly smiles.
DEBBI
I love you guys so much.
They cross the park and walk back to the minivan. Molly and
Zev pile into the back.
MOLLY
See you soon right Mom?
DEBBI
You got it sweetie. See you soon.
Debbi smiles warmly at Molly and then looks at Zev. Debbi
looks guilty but faintly smiles.
DEBBI
Bye Zev.
ZEV
Bye Mom.
DEBBI
Thank you Jeff.
JEFF
All good. You driving or?
DEBBI
Oh. No...
JEFF
...We could give you a lift?
Debbi considers it... but something holds her back --
DEBBI
...That’s ok. It’s just up the
street.99.
99.
JEFF
Ok.
DEBBI
Thank you though.
JEFF
...You good?
DEBBI
Ya.
JEFF
Ok.
Debbi watches them drive off.
214 214
EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS
Debbi bundles her jacket as she walks past the stretch of
shops between the gas station, the Star Alliance Bank,
Seymour’s Deli and the Bar & Grill...
































the white minivan splashed into a pool of milk.
as some notion of default
there was a plank of wood leaning in fortune;
as the backdrop.
a seagull taped
M. Cho Kerr had taped seagulls
with his video camera
and then with actual tape - .
at times he felt that his luck was over.
and at other times it was as if his work was
something of brutal indifference.
he had no patience + no plan on becoming
patient
...to continue to fail
would be best.
to fail on command, so that his error was enough.
a great illusion
in the context of failure.
he would tape the seagulls and wish that one
day he could show everyone the tapes...
in the meantime
he hoped that people would see the taped
seagulls.
every now and again, once in a while
a friend would say
“M. Cho Kerr, I saw the taped seagull”.
M. Cho Kerr would wish that his friend was
not someone that he knew but everyone he had
never met or seen in the entire world.
some days
in the company of specific friends,
M. Cho Kerr would talk about taping seagulls.
his friends would sometimes indulge him.
it was a feeling that made him feel new.
but it would soon vanish when the friends
went on their way. sometimes they would say
something nice and he would remember it for
a few days.
it was fleeting;
and at the end of the day M. Cho Kerr was
alone with the truth that another day would
come.
he showed his friends the seagull tapes.
they would watch
sometimes,
but they were bored + never understood what
M. Cho Kerr meant.
perhaps his intentions were drab and futile, or
perhaps they did not understand quite, what
the meaning truly was.
the seagull tapes
1 - 932
were in a box where M. Cho Kerr's kitchen
once was.
36tapes 1 - 932 : the beach in wintertime
tapes 933 - 14887 : street shots
tapes 14888 - 35914 : exclusively in flight
35914 onward :
there was to be no stipulation as to environment.
M. Cho Kerr would step away from 35914
onward.
the only method that M. Cho Kerr knew was
to catch a seagull.
for this he had a great pair of running sneakers,
of their true quality
was that the laces never, ever, came untied.
to catch a seagull was never a dull moment.
with soft fingers and almost no grip
M. Cho Kerr would tape them.
and then among their release he would tape
them.
the best moments were when he would tape a
good number of seagulls that he had taped.
tape 4 was the one he considered to be his best
tape.
the staff at vhq knew M. Cho Kerr as someone
who loved movies.
little did they know, some of their tapes had
actually been replaced with M. Cho Kerr's
seagull tapes.
there were days that M. Cho Kerr felt that he
had taped no seagulls.
even if he had taped a seagull...it had to be
done in a specific way in order to have really
felt like he had taped a seagull.
(better even could have been a bowl of chopped
lettuce)
some days he was so distracted that he could
barely leave the room.
these days were filled with a certain anxiety
that M. Cho Kerr could only solve by taping
seagulls.
M. Cho Kerr had something of a knowingness
of the future.
he seldom knew anything but the future. not
the next seagull, or the seagull after that,
but the seagull
after that.
M. Cho Kerr found no dignity in the inability
to succeed
(despite the fact that his work was of severe and
true excellence).
to quit was something M. Cho Kerr sometimes
wished to do.
but he could never seem to find a way.
"it would be better if I quit" he said, but despite
himself he couldn't do it. perhaps this was his
biggest failure.
perhaps it was his only failure.
this made M. Cho Kerr very sad, but every
now and again it filled him with something
euphoric.
an immeasurable fragment of time
unaware. to insist,
'today, I won today, today was a glorious day.'







What.
What.
Seriously what?
Nothing.
Isaac.
What.
What the fuck.
Nothing.
What were you going to say?
Nothing.
She stares at him.
What?
Are you being serious right now?
What?
Seriously what the fuck.
What the fuck what?
She goes on her phone.
He stares off. Looking at the ground or something.
A minute or two later --
Georgia.
She doesn’t answer.
Georgia.
She lifts her eyebrows, still staring at the screen.
Georgia.
She puts her phone down.
What?
At the restaurant...
She stares at him.
Yes?
When we were at the restaurant and you thought you lost your keys.
Ya...
When we were at the restaurant and you thought you lost your keys and you went to the bathroom to look for them and I-- I went and looked through your purse. And I took this.
He hands her a weird scrap.
It’s a crumpled piece of tampon wrapper. Maybe an inch big or so.
Georgia blinks aggressively.
What the fuck.
It’s not anything.
You didn’t find this in my purse.
Ya I did.
Why the fuck would I keep this.
I don’t know.
This is garbage.
Ya.
What even is this?
It’s like a piece of a wrapper.
She looks at it more closely.
It’s a tampon wrapper.
Ya.
Like. Why would this even be in my purse.
She hands it back to him.
I dunno.
Why did you take this?
I don’t know.
Like what was the fucking point of it.
I just took it.
Why.
I don’t know.
But actually why.
I don’t know.
You like got up out of your chair and went through my purse and found
this fuckin shit and then went back to your seat and sat back down?
Yes.
And then you put it in your pocket and kept it.
Ya.
For like a week.
Ya.
For like two weeks.
I guess.
That’s fucked up.
Ya.
It’s gross.
I guess I was like, maybe she left her keys in her purse-- and she
didn’t see.
They sit there for a minute or so. He holds out the wrapper for her to take. She takes it.
Ok...so...open your mouth then.
Why.
You have to eat it.
What.
You have to eat it now.
No I don’t.
Isaac.
She is smiling now.
You have to.
No.
Isaac--
Open.
She holds the wrapper up to him.
It was on the ground.
She tries to stuff it in his mouth. He won’t open. She keeps trying and he keeps squirming away.
She stops.
You touched it with pee hands.
No I didn’t.
Yes you did.
You don’t fucking pee every time you put in a god damn tampon
fuckhead now open your fucking-- She squeezes his face and forces his mouth open. She stuffs the wrapper past his teeth. She covers his mouth with her hand. They stare at each other until he stops struggling. She slowly takes her hand away.
Loser.
He opens his mouth. It’s gone.
The keys were in my purse the whole time.
Ya.
If you looked through my purse you would’ve known that.
Ya.
Isaac.
Yes.
Did you see them there?
Yes.
I did.
So you knew that.
I guess ya.
Fuckin asshole.
I didn’t like... you were really frantic--
Fuck.
Whatever.
I have to work tomorrow.
He keeps sitting there.
I saw them there but--
You didn’t tell me.
No.
Because you’re a fuckin asshole.
Because then you’d know I went through your purse.
Ya. But then I could have stopped freaking the fuck out about losing my keys. Asshole.
My first thought was like to steal them and then take them to the store and get them copied and then like I was like that’s fucked up
and I didn’t know why I wanted to do that but then I was like ok I
should hide them in a weird place like in your lettuce or something
so you wouldn’t feel dumb about not being able to find them because who would ever like--
Sorry what?
Like I thought I’d hide them in your lettuce--
I heard what you said dumb fuck.
Ya.
But like, what the fuck asshole.
I didn’t do that though.
Yes.
You didn’t.
I dunno.
Isaac.
Yes.
You can’t do this shit.
Ok.
Like you can’t fuckin lie about shit.
I didn’t lie.
Yes you did.
I didn’t lie.
Jesus.
Georgia goes on her phone... for another minute or two.
She refuses to look at him.
Isaac gets up and goes to her bookshelf.
She peaks at him.

Isaac looks over at Georgia. She in her phone. He slowly reaches for a certain book. An old diary. And right as his finger is about to touch it- She whips her phone at his head.
Ow.
Fuck.
He rubs above his eyebrow.
Are you being serious right now?
What?
The journal is slightly tilted out.
Pass me it.
He is still rubbing his head, squinting his eye.
Isaac, pass it to me.
He takes it and slowly brings it over to her. He keeps standing there.
Sit down.
He’s kind of seeing stars.
Isaac, sit.
He does.
She slowly opens the book. Flips some pages.
October 24 1998.
She reads a bit.
Hm.
No. I can’t read you that.
What.
Isaac’s head seems kind of fucked up. She notices but kind of ignores it for now. She keeps flipping pages.
What.
Ok how about this.
What was the part you can’t read.
Dec 03 2001.
She reads the book.
Ok this is good. Can I read you this?
What about the part you can’t read.
This part is better.
What about the other part though.
No.
Why not.
Fuck off this part is better.
Ok.
Me and Ilana--12.
She looks at him. He’s still rubbing his head.
Let me see.
She flips the diary and moves closer to him. She moves his hand away from his head. She looks.
It’s fine.
His eye is all squinty.
Open.
He opens his mouth.
Your eye stupid.
He tries but it’s weird.
It’s ok.
Isaac.
He sits there touching his head.
She takes his hand away again.
Stop.
She takes his head and gets him to lie down in her lap. She takes the journal and perches up a bit. She reads from the diary.
Dec 03 1995.
..I love Ilana. She is so evil she told me we will steal cars and run over assholes 1. Bradley and 2. Stuart. They are both pig headed but worse is Bradley he will drown in Mrs. Llewellyn’s piss--
She reads more to herself.
Ugh.
Fuck.
Georgia.
It’s ok.
Read me more.
No.
Read it.
It’s actually like -- too fucked. I’ll just tell you what happened.
She closes the book. She kind of feels his tempature with the back of her hand.
I was always really close with your sister but everyone knew that me and Ilana were actual best friends.

Isaac opens his eyes to look at her for a second. And then goes back to sleeping.
Don’t sleep.
I’m not.
You might have a concussion. You shouldn’t sleep.
Ok.
Ilana came at the end of junior high and everyone thought she was
like really weird but like-- She actually wasn’t.
...
At all.
She touches Isaac’s forehead. Where the phone hit.
Ow.
She pulls her hand away.
We were in math one day and she just like puts up her hand and says why are we even learning this when they are putting wires around the
trees and then she starts going on about how in the forest they were putting wires around the trees to stop beavers from chopping them down. And the other kids were like oh my god this girl is so completely fucking dumb. But I mean... She actually was so fuckin weird looking but now she’s so pretty! 
She looks toward her phone. It’s way across the room.
Can I see your phone?
He takes it from his pocket and gives it to her. She tries some passwords but they don’t work.
What’s your password?
He’s having trouble opening his eyes.
What’s your password?
Give it.
No.
I’ll type it in.
You don’t trust me?
I want to type it.
No.
His eyes are a bit open. He goes to take it.
Tell me.
Can I show you.
Just tell me.
I’ll type it and you look.
She slowly hands it to him. His eyes are still fucked.
He pushes the code: 8-7-9-5.
8-7-9-5.
Don’t say it out loud.
What?
I dunno. It’s weird.
I won’t tell anyone.
Ok.
She looks up a picture of Ilana.
Look.
He doesn’t want to.
Isn’t she pretty though...
Isaac?
He looks.
Yah.
He can’t keep his eyes open longer.
Why can’t you open your eyes.
I dunno.
Isaac.
I dunno.
She’s really pretty.
I guess.
Like she’s really pretty right?
His eyes are already closed again.
You already showed me her picture so many times.
Georgia sighs. She’s pretending not to be worried about him but he looks fucked up.
She dated Stuart and I dated Bradley and they were brothers. They were our first actual boyfriends.
Ya.
They were both quiet but Bradley was younger and sweeter. And ... The plan was that I was going to lose my virginity to Bradley and Ilana was going to lose her virginity to Stuart and we would do it at the same time.
That guy was in my grade.
Georgia thinks about it.
Bradley.
Right.
Ya.
I knew that.
He was.
Yah.
Right.
...
So
Stuart had a lot of secrets that Ilana didn’t know that I knew. And Bradley had a lot of secrets that Ilana knew that I didn’t know
... But I thought Bradley told me literally EVERYTHING.. but later I learned that wasn’t true. Because Stuart also apparently told everything to Ilana--
But
guess what.
What?
Georgia reads a message on Isaac’s phone. She starts typing back.
Sorry just let me type this.
She types.
The fuck.
...
Who are you talking to?
Your sister.
Your phone is over there.
Ya.
Does she know it’s you.
Ya.
What did you say.
Nothing.
She’s still typing.
What the fuck.
She called me cuntish.
Cuntish.
....
Cuntish.
Cunt-ish.
Cuntish.
Why.
Because she feels that way.
Oh.
Deep sigh from Georgia.
Isaac. I’ll tell you the secret ok?
She puts the phone down.
Ok.
Ok.
But you have to promise that you won’t tell anyone though?
Ok.
Promise?
Ok.
Ok. If you do. Then I will do something really fucked up.
What.
Like I will kill you.20.
Oh.
I will fucking eat your head. I will cut off your fucking head and
roast it in the oven with like potatoes or something.
Ok.
And I’ll chew up your ears and blow bubbles from them and spit them in the fucking trash.
Ok.
Like I know I can’t trust you.
Then why are you telling me.
Because then I have grounds to kill you on.
She stares at him.
Just don’t go and tell a million fuckin people okay?
Who am I going to tell?
I don’t know. It doesn’t matter. Tell whoever the fuck you want.
I’m not going to.
She takes a breath.
Ok. The secret.
Stuart had already had sex before Ilana.
Ok.
And Bradley had already lost his virginity too.
Oh.
Before me.
Ya.
But we thought we were going to lose our virginities to Bradley and
Stuart.
Ya.
At the same time.
Ya.
Fuck.
Ya.
Sorry, I just got this feeling like...
Fuck
I dunno. I shouldn’t tell you. I don’t want to talk about it. This is dumb.
It’s ok.
...
Ok.
Deep breath.
Bradley and Stuart had sex with-- each other. Like anal. They had anal sex with each other.
Stuart and Bradley had anal sex with each other.
...
Is your head ok?
What?
Is your head ok? It looks fucked up.
They had anal sex together?
Yes.
What?
Like Stuart and Bradley both had anal sex so in fact they weren’t losing their virginity at all. Despite what they fucking thought.

And they had anal sex with each other?

Yes. They fucking fucked each other. They fucked and had incestuous sex together.
Right.
And they lied to us. And they said that because it wasn’t vaginas and because they were boys and brothers that it didn’t matter but guess what it did.
Ya.
It did.
Stuart had anal sex before Ilana and she thought that he was losing her virginity to him but he actually wasn’t even though he thought he was because it was anal and he thought it didn’t count even though it did and Bradley told me that he had never had sex before me but he actually had had sex already with his own brother who was dating my new best friend Ilana.

Georgia does that blinking thing again. He just kind of stares at her.

I just opened up to you and told you a really fucked up story and it means nothing to you.
It did.
And you knew my keys were there the entire time.
Ya.
And you didn’t want to tell me that.
Ya.
Why the fuck did I just tell you that story. Fuck. That was so fucking stupid.
No it wasn’t.
You wanted to watch me freak the fuck out.
No.
Then why didn’t you tell me?
I don’t know I said.
Why.
I don’t know.
He tries to get up. His eye gets all squinty again.
No I didn’t.
Yes you fuckin did.
Georgia.
I hate you.
Georgia.
Your head is fucked up.
It’s fine. It’s going away.
Fuck you.
It’s fine. I’m sorry. I can go home.
You’re staying here. Fuck off.
...Georgia I don’t think they actually did that.
Fuck you.
I think they probably just said that they did.
They did that.
It’s too fucked.
Ya I know.
I think they maybe just like pussied out so they made that up.
No they didn’t. They still wanted to do it after but we said no.
Ok. I think they were fucking with you.
Isaac, they fucking did it.
...Ok.
What kind of fucking 11 year old boy is too much of a pussy to fuck a girl?
He doesn’t say anything.
Fuck them both.
Ya.
A pause. Georgia is calming down.
Do you ever talk to him?
Bradley?
Ya.
No. Why the fuck would I talk to him.
I dunno. But like...he’s around.
I don’t care.
Like I saw him.
When?
I dunno.
Why didn’t you tell me?
I dunno. Why would you care.
All you ever do is tell me shit I don’t fucking care about.
Ya. Um. I dunno. I just didn’t. But I am now.
God damn it.
Fuck.
Where did you see him.
Ya.
What?
What?
Where did you see him.
Oh um. I guess like a year ago or maybe a year and a half.
...ok.
What was he doing.
Buying...milk...or something.
Milk?
Ya.
He was buying milk? Where?
Like the store.
And did you talk to him?
No.
Why?
I dunno.
Why didn’t you talk to him?
I don’t know. I don’t really know him.
You just fucking told me you were in his fucking class.
Ya.
So of course you know him.
Well like, I know who he is ya.
So generally you say fucking hi to people who you know who they are.
Just because I know who he is doesn’t mean I need to talk to him.
...
He was like buying diapers so like I don’t usually talk to people who are buying fucking diapers. That’s kind of like a thing that I don’t fuck with.
Diapers.
Ya.
You said milk.
He was getting diapers too.
Diapers.
He was with some woman and had one of those baby things.
Baby things...
Like a fucking strap thing.
Ya.
You know what I mean?
Ya...SO there was a baby there too?
Ya.
He has a baby?
I guess.
He has a baby...
It looked like he did ya.
A fucking baby.
Yes.
You don’t have a baby from anal sex.
No, no you don’t.
Especially from your own brother.
Especially from your own brother.
And you didn’t talk to him.
No.
...
But like, we nodded at each other.
You nodded.
Ya.
And then what?
He said ‘how’s it going man?’
Right.
...And you said?
.
...
I said ‘hey man’
Right.
And then he said ‘good to see you’
Uh huh.
And I said ‘you too man.’
Right. And then?
I kept walking.
You kept walking.
Yah.
So like... you talked to him.
Not really.
But you talked to him.
I guess.
Because you know him.
Not really.
But you do.
I don’t like know him.
I don’t care.
Me neither.
She lies down.
Why the fuck was he buying milk.
I dunno.
If like there was a baby the mom would be breast feeding.
Ya.
So what the fuck.
Maybe it was for them. Like normal milk.
Ya....K.
Like for cereal or whatever.
Ya.
...
He takes his phone. There is another picture she was looking at. It was of her and Ilana. They are on a nature walk or something. Isaac looks at it. He goes to get up.
Don’t.
He doesn’t.
...Stay still.
She closes her eyes.
You’re not allowed to sleep.
I’ll go now.
You have a concussion.
No I don’t.
You have a fucking concussion
Isaac.
No I don’t.
You have a concussion and you can’t go to sleep or you’ll die.
I won’t die.
You have to stay up until your concussion is gone.
Ok.
Or else you’ll get fucked up.
Ok.
Now I can’t sleep either because you’re an asshole and you made me throw my phone at your fucking head. She’s lying down. He’s sitting at the end of the bed.
You never talked to him?
Who?
Bradley.
Fuck him.
Maybe we should...call him.
Who?
Bradley.
No.
Maybe you should. I have his number.
Isaac. No.
And like, tell him--
No.
Isaac stops.
You’re such a fuckhead.
Her eyes flutter a bit, Isaac is staring at her.
What the fuck.
What.
Did I fall asleep?
No.
She is trying to keep her eyes open.
Are you being serious?
Yes.
Did I?
No. Like actually not.
Ok. I just did though.
I really don’t think you did.
Fuck.
Georgia....
...
She is extremely sleepy.
Georgia.
Ya.
Would you ever have a sky vagina.
What.
Would you ever have a sky vagina?
What?
A sky vagina.
A sky
vagina.
Yes.
A sky vagina...
Yes.
What the fuck are you saying.
Tell me.
What.
If you would have a sky vagina.
What the fuck is a sky vagina.
It’s a certain kind of vagina.
Yes.
...If you have a sky vagina you let your vagina float away so it can live amongst the clouds.
Ok.
There are many.
Yes.
And what happens a lot of the time is that they stay in the clouds each day and most of the time they just stay there. But. Sometimes. They like... abduct certain people.
Oh.
So you would decide if there was someone you thought should move to
another life then you would abduct them with your sky vagina.
Another life...
Yes.
Isaac. What the fuck are you talking about.
It’s like being reborn. Like as a chameleon or something.
No.
Like you would abduct them and then they are born again as a baby.
They die.
No. They go into the sky vagina and then go in another vagina and come out as a baby. Like you abduct them with your sky vagina.
Ya so they die and are reborn.
No.
Yes.
No.
Yes.
And they know. A sky vagina baby just knows that it was here before. A sky vagina baby doesn’t know anything. Someone who is born from a sky vagina knows. A baby doesn’t know anything.
Yes they do.
No they don’t.
I remember.
What.
Being born from a sky vagina.
You don’t have a sky vagina.
I didn’t say that I had one. I said I was born from one.
Oh.
Yes.
Oh I see. And your confiding this in me.
Yes.
And why would you do that.
Because.
Because why.
Because I thought you should know.
Great.
You told me a secret so...
What the fuck.
So would you have a sky vagina or not and if you did - name who you would absorb.
I would absorb a lot of pieces of shit.
Which pieces of shit.
She thinks about it for a moment.
There are a lot of fucking assholes I would absorb.
But not you. I would make you stay.
Why.
Because. It would be too easy for you to get to start again.
No it wouldn’t.
You want me to get a sky vagina so I can absorb you.
No I don’t.
Yes you do.
If you had a sky vagina would you--
I don’t have a fucking sky vagina.
But if you did--
I don’t have one so shut the fuck up about it.
If I had one--
You don’t get one. You don’t get a sky vagina.
I’m saying IF.
No. Fuck you.
If I had one I would absorb you so you would have to suffer this life again.
Evil.
Yes.
I wouldn’t absorb you so that you had to live with your fuckin self. 
...
Ok. Having a sky vagina is actually a big sacrifice and it’s not to be taken lightly.
No. It’s not.
If you have a sky vagina you never get to have sex again. It’s a big sacrifice.
Couldn’t you just swoop down and fuck whatever you want.
No.
I would swoop down and fuck whatever I wanted.
No. You can’t.
I’m a floating vagina.
No. It’s like a form of celibacy.41.
Well maybe I would have that then.
Because you hate sex.
Yes. Isaac. Because I hate sex.
...
Well a lot of people want that.
Yup.
So you would have a sky vagina then.
Georgia is actually thinking about it now.
It can be sad for the people that love the people that get absorbed by sky vaginas.
Yes.
...
And what do the people say when they get absorbed.
They become sad... Because they are gone. For some people.
Yah.
But some other people get abducted and... no one really cares. Even though they know they should. But they just don’t. And they wish they did, but they just don’t care.
Ya.
...
I get it
...
Isaac.
No response.
Isaac.
He is looking away.
If you got abducted then we would miss you.
...
A lot.
...
Ok?
Ok.
Ok.
Ok.
She’s not tired anymore. She touches his head. It doesn’t seem as bad.
Is it ok?
I think so.
Do you think it needs ice or something?
No.
What about ibuprofen. Maybe you should take ibuprofen.
No, it’s ok.
It’s good for the swelling or something.
I don’t care.
You idiot.
Georgia.
What.
I have a question.
What.
You know when you said that you don’t like pee every time you put in a tampon.
Yes.
Well, can I ask you something.
Ok.
Like...when um...when I dated
Arial.
Yes.
She like um. She uh. ...like when she orgasmed she had this fear that she would get air trapped...and um... and so she never let me do it for that long. Like even if I wanted to do it for a long time...but she never let me.
Do what?
Like...go down on her.
She wouldn’t let you?
No, like she would, but like only for a little bit.
Because of air?
Yah.
Air...
She thought there would be an air bubble.
What the fuck does this have to do with tampon peeing.
I dunno.
The fuck.
I guess the connection is like-- that people still kiss vaginas even though there’s pee that comes out of them and it isn’t a big deal but when you put that tampon thing in my mouth I felt really fucked about it because there was pee on it or something like that but like she thought that she was going to die. 
Georgia does the blinking thing.
Sorry... from an air bubble?
Yah like getting an air bubble.
From getting an air bubble in her vagina?
Ya.
Right.
Do you think that’s actually a thing.
Are you joking.
I guess.
You’re joking right?
Ya.
No you’re not.
I guess I just wanted to ask.
Jesus.
She had really bad digestive issues and I didn’t want to fuck with that.
Queefing is not a digestive issue.
What is it then.
It’s pointless vagina farting.
It’s not pointless.
Ok. If there was an air bubble you would queef.
Or burp.
Ya.
The point of queefing is unknown but it is dangerous. It may explode a woman’s head if it gets trapped and she was scared of that.
What the fuck.
She didn’t want the queef to go out into the world either.
No. No, she didn’t.
But it had to happen.
Do you die from farting.
No.
So farts are anal queefs.
Isaac spaces out. Maybe it’s the concussion.
I feel like I want to write her a letter.
Ok.
I just want to tell her like...
What.
Like. I want to tell her that like it’s over.
Ya she broke up with you.
Ya. 
But I want to break up with her.
Ya. 
She beat you to it.
Ya. 
But I still want to.
Ok, you missed your chance.
But I could do it.
What?
I want to write her a letter.
Don’t.
She called me.
When.
Yesterday.
And?
She said she was sorry.
I kind of fucking hate her.
I know.
When was this.
Yesterday.
Right.
Like, she thinks she’s sorry but I don’t think she actually is.
I don’t really understand what you’re talking about.
She said that she like wants to have a baby with me one day.
No she didn’t.
Ya.
She’s trying to fuck with you.
Ya. But I think she wants to be with someone she doesn’t love or else she would be with me. You know what I mean.
Ya.
Since she loves you she doesn’t want to be with you.
Ya.
She wants to be with someone she doesn’t love because she loves you.
Ya.
That’s dumb as fuck.
Ya.
She wants like a minotaur.
What minotaur.
Like him as a boyfriend and me for a baby.
That’s not a minotaur.
I don’t know.
She opens the drawer and takes a pen and her journal.
You tell me and I’ll write it.
You want to write it?
Yup.
In your old journal?
Yup.
You shouldn’t write it there.
It’s fine.
But that’s like an important book.
No it’s not.
You’ll ruin it.
Isaac, it doesn’t matter.
Don’t you have a scrap or something.
What would you say.
Can you write it on a scrap? I don’t want it to go in the journal.
It’s fine.
It will go down in history if you write it in there.
Yup. So make it good.
It should go on a scrap.
No. I’m going to keep it forever. And I’m going to write down exactly what you say so it better be fucking good.
No.
It’s too late. I’m doing it.
Ok.
Ok.
Ok. Um.
Ok.
Seriously?
Ok. Um. To Arial...
Dear Arial. Actually cross out dear it should just say Arial.
Too late. I wrote Dear Arial.
Ok. Fuck. Shit. Ok. Um.
Dear Arial. Ok fuck shit ok um...
Really?
Yup.
Ok.

He focuses.

Dear Arial. I hope -- I hope you can read this and -- I um -- that like I -- dunno I dunno. I hope you can know that I really love you like more than how I was in love with you but like I love you and I’m I’m trying to do the right thing and I don’t mean to have like an unsolicited outburst but I think you are ok with that kind of thing even though you shouldn’t be.
Georgia finishes writing the sentence.
Did you write all of that?
Yes.
How many pages is it.
Like...almost a third?
Ok.
Moment.
Ok. Um. Like I want us to be in each other’s lives and I know you do too. It’s kind of impossible to handle for me but like I feel like you need it more than me. Which is weird. But--I--I just want to tell you all of this stuff but I’m scared that if I tell you then you will never talk to me again and I need you to hear this and not like ...I think we need to be equal. Like so I need to tell you this. So if we can work through this then we will be good but you need to not fuck with me and tell me you love me anymore when you don’t because I know you do but you aren’t really ...um because even though you always tell me you don’t care about your new boyfriend the truth is you want to be with him more than me so what the fuck. And I know you always want to say that we will end up back together but we won’t and that’s what I need to tell you is that we won’t end up back together because I decided that we won’t. You know what I mean?
Georgia’s still writing.
Does that make sense.
Yes.
How many pages is that?
Like 3.
Ok. And I also have more to say -- I um. I may be deeply disillusioned but like this is actually your fault a lot and my like-- I think you’re actually kind of fucked up but like --- I’m not like someone who is doing good necessarily. Like I just... I’m like sometimes ok but usually -- I can’t be like a dad of your kid even though when you told me you wanted to have a kid with me then it was like a good thing but like in a really weird way more so because it was the first time you were honest but I will never be with you.
So...Ya.
Is that it?
I guess.
Ok.
ISAAC
You wrote all of that.
I think I actually missed a bit by the end.
Oh.
You said a lot of stuff.
I guess.
Ya.
ISAAC
Can I see?
My handwriting is pretty messy.
That’s ok.
Ya.
Thanks.
No problem.
Like thank you.
Yup.
For doing that.
She is smiling.
What?
Nothing.
Can I see.
She hands him the journal very slowly. He opens the pages. They’re all blank. She didn’t actually write anything.
Good.
I wasn’t going to fuck up my journal. This shit is sacred. Plus no one can actually write that fast.
Whatever. Can you also write um..p.s.
She pretends to write.
If I ever went down on you again I would blow an air bubble in your vagina and explode your head.
All of my love, Isaac.
I’m not writing that.
Why.
Because.
Isaac lies down on the pillow beside Georgia. She faces away from him. They are in a spoon position but not touching. Isaac looks at her hand. It’s just kind of open. He goes to reach for it-- But he stops and looks at his fingers. He puts his arm under his head like a pillow kind of. Isaac snuggles a little bit closer to her. She snuggles away.
Georgia.
Yes.
Are you sleeping?
No.
Georgia.
Yes.
You know that play we saw.
Ya.
And the guy won’t stop fuckin hassling that girl to be with him and she just keeps saying that she doesn’t love him but then in the--
That play was stupid.
Ok.
They lie there for a bit.
What about Ilana.
What about Ilana?
Would you ever date her.
No.
I think you should date her.
Like. She. I don’t want to.
Georgia flips over. They are facing each other now.
Why though.
Because.
You said you thought she was pretty.
Ya.
You guys are like the same kind of needy.
No I’m not.
Trust me.
Like k. We hung out one time.
What?
We hung out once.
How.
Like she talked to me on the internet.
What the fuck.
It was just like. Weird.
She messaged you?
Ya.
When.
After me and Arial broke up.
Like when.
In February.
Ya. So like recently.
I guess so.
She would have told me.
I dunno.
Like she one hundred percent would have told me.
...
What did you guys do.
I just kind of picked her up and we drove around. Where.
Like around the park and we just kind of I dunno. It was weird.
What did you guys talk about.
Like you. I dunno. She told me that like, sundays fuckin suck and I told her I always just drive around for no reason and she said that you said that I always just do that.
Ya.
And she told me I was really grumpy and then she said you were always up her ass about shit and she can see why me and you always hang out.
What the fuck.
And she said that you told her that I said she was cute which wasn’t true and I could tell she made it up.
No I did actually tell her that.
Really?
Ya.
You made that up?
Ya.
Oh.
I mean you do think she’s cute so whatever.
Ya. But like.
Fucking don’t even try to accuse me of making shit up.
Ya.
You’re a sack of shit.
And she said that you said I was obsessed with my ex.
Ya and you still are.
And she said she was obsessed with her ex’s too. But like ex’s plural.
Ya she’s obsessed. So you guys would be perfect for each other.
She like at one point she was like-- she like touched my eyeball like kind of like an ET finger...and then she kept like asking if she can do something else so she grabbed my nose and squeezed itreally hard and crushed my boogers.
What the fuck.
It was weird.
Are you in love with her?
No.
That makes no sense.
Ya.
Fuck.
And then she was like staring at me, so I put my finger in her nose but there were no boogers in it which was weird and we were just like having a staring contest and I just slowly took my finger away.
What the fuck.
And then she put her finger in my bellybutton--
Ok I don’t need to hear the rest of this.
Ok.
I feel like sick hearing this.
She gets up and leaves the room.
He lies there.
She comes back.
Sorry I actually thought I was going to throw up.
Sorry.
It’s fine.
Ya but
I dunno.
Tell me the rest.
No.
Tell me.
I don’t think I should.
Fuck you tell me.
What did I say last?
She stuck her fuckin finger in your bellybutton?
Right.
Ya.
And then she like takes it out and then she takes my finger and puts it on her seatbelt button thing and the seatbelt flies out.
Right.
Isaac is touching his jaw.
Why are you doing that?
I don’t know.
Ok.
And then she like climbs over and like licks my ear, and it was cold as fuck.
Gross.
And then she just like sits back in her seat and I uh. I. Um. And then I just like put my hand in her pants...but then I just took it out. Like. I didn’t like....It just felt like...empty.
Yah.
Like it just felt like nothing.
Ya.
And I asked her if she thought you would be mad and I said no because I knew that you didn’t see me like that.
Right.
And we were like... She was like are you going to tell her? and I said no and then she agreed and then she just got out of the car and called someone which I thought was probably you but obviously-- wasn’t.
Or maybe it was but. Yah.
Georgia doesn’t say anything.
They lie on the bed.
Um. Like. You know the first time I ever jacked off I had no idea what it was. I was like... like it just happened and nobody ever told me
how to do that and afterward --
Isaac. It’s ok.
I know.
No. Like. You don’t have to talk.
You can just be quiet.
Ok.
Um.
I was like...that was the best feeling in the world
I said you don’t have to talk.
I know but--
You can’t help it.
Sometimes--
Can we just be quiet for a little bit please.
...
Ok. Tell me about the first time you jacked off then.
I was like this is fucked this is too good to be true and I got really scared because I was completely positive that it was going to run out.
Like there would be a limit to the amount and then like it would run out you know.
Not really.
I was like this is too good to be true.
Right.
I was scared.
Ya.
And I was like...there was this
weird fuckin goo all over the god
damn place and I didn’t even know
how to clean it up.
Gross.
Ya. I guess my mom just did the
laundry and that was it.
How old were you.
10 or something.
I was older than that.
How old were you.
Fuck you.
Georgia.
What.
I wish I never masturbated but my hands just did that and it just happened.
It’s ok.
Ya but it was fucked and I felt really sad.
Ya.
Even though it felt really good it felt really sad to me.
Well you don’t have to be sad about it.
I am though. I’m like still sad.
You’re still sad every time you jack off?
Ya.
Why.
I dunno. It just feels sad.
Why.
Because it’s like... I’m like. I don’t know. I wish there was someone there...that I loved or--I guess like I feel like the whole reason I just like went and jacked off before I even knew it exist when I was a kid was so that I’d go like find someone that I loved and then like...you know. Had sex with them.
Jesus.
I dunno.
Like. I don’t know.
Can I ask you about something.
No.
Ok.
Just ask dummy.
Um. Ok. Um.
Like remember when I told you that
I. Um. That I. Um. Loved you.
Big sigh from Georgia.
Yes.
Like. I.
And you said that you didn’t feel that way.
Yes.
Who do you feel that way about.
No one.
Oh.
Like. I just don’t.
Oh.
Not like that guy Elward?
Elward?
Ya.
Who the fuck is Elward?
That guy you dated.
Ethan?
Ya.
His name wasn’t fucking Elward.
Oh.
That isn’t even a fucking name.
Ya it is.
That’s like a street or something.
Ya.
His name was Ethan.
Ya.
I didn’t love him.
I thought you did.
No.
Oh.69.
We never had sex.
Oh.
No.
So like. Whatever.
It’s not whatever.
Why.
It fucking sucks.
I thought you did.
Isaac. I’m a fucking virgin.
What.
Ya.
Oh.
Like. Maybe I want to be in love or whatever but, I’m just not like that.
Ya.
I know like you and Ilana can just like randomly meet and hook up in your fucking car but I’m not like that.
She put her finger in my bellybutton.
Ya.
That isn’t hooking up.
Whatever you fingered her.
No I didn’t. I just put my hand like above.
Georgia doesn’t say anything.
Is it because of Bradley.
No.
But like. Who did you feel that way about.
No one.
Fuck.
I need to work tomorrow.
Ya.
The first time I masturbated I thought it was stupid.
It is stupid.
No it isn’t.
It actually is stupid.
It isn’t.
It’s like fucked.
For some of us... it’s all we fuckin have.
I guess.
And that’s just all we get and then we die.
Ya.
One day you will love someone and have sex with them and they will also love you and want to have sex with you... Or maybe you won’t and you’ll just die. Because that’s just fucking what happened.
Ya.
What about you though.
What about me.
Like what about you.
I’m fine.
Ok.
I have you.
But like. As a friend.
Yup.
But there’s just like...all that other stuff.
Fuck all that shit.
Ya.
Isaac gives her the tampon wrapper.
I’m sorry I went in your bag.
She takes it.
It’s ok.
I pretended to swallow it.
I know.
I saw you take it out of your mouth.
Oh.
It’s ok.
Um.
I um. I think I just wanted something of yours. Like-- to be close to you in a way that is like...
Do you know what I mean.
But you lied so.
Like. I just. I feel really...um.
I know. But you lied.
But I know that for you it’s whatever but.
Ya.
It’s ok.
When I was with Arial I was really obsessed with her but I felt like guilty about it like the whole time... and I really liked her but I felt guilty and um. With you it’s like different in the way that I don’t feel like it’s...Like I just like being around you a lot.
Ya.
I think that a lot of the time you like want to like have someone that you like. Like you want to have them and you want them to be yours.
Ya.
And you want them to have you.
Right.
But like. I don’t like need that when I think of you. Like some girls I date I like need that. But you--
We aren’t dating.
Ya. But like. I’m trying to tell you the reason I took the wrapper.
Right.
Like I guess I couldn’t help myself though I still need to have.
To have a vagina.
Um.
A vagina to call your own.
It’s ok.
But like. Yours. Or something.
Ya.
But like. I’m not asking to own it.
Right.
I just thought. I just want to...Like be with it. Because I just like you and when I think of you I become happy. I just want to like...Send queefs.
ISAAC
Um.
You want to send queefs into my vagina and own it.
No.
They’re lying there staring at the ceiling.
Do you promise that Ilana was the one that messaged you.
Ya.
You’re not making that up?
No.
Do you promise me that.
Yes.
She messaged you?
Ya.
When.
Like I guess--
Ya you already told me.
Ya.
I told her you guys broke up and she knew I was trying to get you to meet her. I don’t understand how you never met her at school or anything.
I like kind of remember her somehow
I guess.
I don’t know why this fuckin pisses
me off so much.
I’m sorry.
Ya. She should have fucking said.
Ya.
Like maybe I didn’t actually want you guys to meet.
Why.
I don’t know.
Ya. Well. We did.
Did you ever see her again.
No.
Will you.
No.
Ok. I don’t want you to.
Ok.
Also I don’t want you to fuck her.
Ok.
And I don’t want her to fuck you.
Ok.
You can fuck yourself.
Ya.
And be sad.
And Ilana can fuck whoever she
wants. But not you.
Ok.
Ok.
What does Ilana think of Stuart.
She doesn’t give a fuck.
Oh.
If I saw Bradley or called him or whatever which I’m not going to
because fuck him but I would like tell him that -- I can’t like give him the credit for me not trusting men. It’s a deeper rooted thing with my dad or something I don’t know. But like seriously fuck him.
Ya.
You are such a pathological liar
that I think I’m like -- I think that’s like what works for me.
No I’m not.
Isaac. You are.
No I’m not.
Yes you are. I’m sorry but you just are. You don’t know you’re doing it. Like it’s like your disillusioned but I know that most things you say aren’t real even though you think they are.
Ok.
I’m sorry.
Well I’m sorry also.
It’s ok.
Ok.
Georgia puts the tampon wrapper into her mouth.
She swallows it.
Opens her mouth. It’s gone.
They close their eyes.
If I die in my sleep now then I will never have sex again.
She doesn’t have anything to say to that.
But Georgia.
What.
I like being here with you and I feel ok when I’m with you.
Thank you Isaac.
Like, I just don’t think-- I don’t feel bad. And I actually feel normal and good.
Thank you.
And you should know that.
I know.
Because you deserve to know.
Thank you.
And even though you don’t love me also then you should just take the compliment.
Thank you Isaac.
So if my head explodes from a concussion it’s ok.
Yes.
As long as I got the concussion from you then I don’t care.
Isaac.
I don’t care if I die if you’re here.
Ugh.
Georgia.
...what.
Are you mad at Ilana.
Yes.
Ok.
Well. Don’t be mad at her if you don’t have to be.
Shut up.
A minute or so.
Isaac.
He doesn’t answer. Because he is sleeping. She touches the spot on his forehead where the cell phone hit and then kisses her hand. And then she goes to sleep too.